\input texinfo   @c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@setfilename ../info/tramp
@c %**start of header
@settitle TRAMP User Manual
@include docstyle.texi
@c %**end of header

@c This is *so* much nicer :)
@footnotestyle end

@c In the Tramp repository, the version number is auto-frobbed from
@c configure.ac, so you should edit that file and run
@c "autoconf && ./configure" to change the version number.

@c Additionally, flags are set with respect to the Emacs flavor; and
@c depending whether Tramp is packaged into (X)Emacs, or standalone.

@include trampver.texi

@c Macro for formatting a file name according to the respective syntax.
@c xxx and yyy are auxiliary macros in order to omit leading and
@c trailing whitespace.  Not very elegant, but I don't know it better.

@c There are subtle differences between texinfo 4.13 and 5.0.  We must
@c declare two versions of the macro.  This will be improved, hopefully.

@c Texinfo 5.0.
@ifset txicommandconditionals
@macro xxx {one}
@set \one\
@end macro

@macro yyy {one, two}
@xxx{x\one\}@c
@ifclear x
\one\@w{}\two\@c
@end ifclear
@clear x\one\
@end macro

@macro trampfn {method, user, host, localname}
@value{prefix}@c
@yyy{\method\,@value{postfixhop}}@c
@yyy{\user\,@@}@c
\host\@value{postfix}\localname\
@end macro
@end ifset

@c Texinfo 4.13.
@ifclear txicommandconditionals
@macro xxx {one}@c
@set \one\@c
@end macro

@macro yyy {one, two}@c
@xxx{x\one\}@c
@ifclear x@c
\one\@w{}\two\@c
@end ifclear
@clear x\one\@c
@end macro

@macro trampfn {method, user, host, localname}@c
@value{prefix}@yyy{\method\,@value{postfixhop}}@yyy{\user\,@@}\host\@value{postfix}\localname\@c
@end macro
@end ifclear

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 1999--2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with the Front-Cover Texts being ``A GNU Manual'',
and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation License''.

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: ``You have the freedom to
copy and modify this GNU manual.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@c Entries for @command{install-info} to use
@dircategory @value{emacsname} network features
@direntry
* TRAMP: (tramp).                 Transparent Remote Access, Multiple Protocol
                                  @value{emacsname} remote file access via ssh and scp.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title @value{tramp} version @value{trampver} User Manual
@author by Daniel Pittman
@author based on documentation by Kai Großjohann
@page
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top, Overview, (dir), (dir)
@top @value{tramp} version @value{trampver} User Manual

This file documents @value{tramp} version @value{trampver}, a remote file
editing package for @value{emacsname}.

@value{tramp} stands for ``Transparent Remote (file) Access, Multiple
Protocol''.  This package provides remote file editing, similar to
@value{ftppackagename}.

The difference is that @value{ftppackagename} uses FTP to transfer
files between the local and the remote host, whereas @value{tramp} uses a
combination of @command{rsh} and @command{rcp} or other work-alike
programs, such as @command{ssh}/@command{scp}.

You can find the latest version of this document on the web at
@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/tramp/}.

@c Pointer to the other Emacs flavor is necessary only in case of
@c standalone installation.
@ifset installchapter
The manual has been generated for @value{emacsname}.
@ifinfo
If you want to read the info pages for @value{emacsothername}, you
should read in @ref{Installation} how to create them.
@end ifinfo
@ifhtml
If you're using the other Emacs flavor, you should read the
@uref{@value{emacsotherfilename}, @value{emacsothername}} pages.
@end ifhtml
@end ifset

@ifhtml
The latest release of @value{tramp} is available for
@uref{ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/tramp/, download}, or you may see
@ref{Obtaining Tramp} for more details, including the Git server
details.

@value{tramp} also has a @uref{http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/tramp/,
Savannah Project Page}.
@end ifhtml

There is a mailing list for @value{tramp}, available at
@email{tramp-devel@@gnu.org}, and archived at
@uref{http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/tramp-devel/, the
@value{tramp} Mail Archive}.
@ifhtml
Older archives are located at
@uref{http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum=tramp-devel,
SourceForge Mail Archive} and
@uref{http://www.mail-archive.com/emacs-rcp@@ls6.cs.uni-dortmund.de/,
The Mail Archive}.
@c in HTML output, there's no new paragraph.
@*@*
@end ifhtml

@insertcopying

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::                    What @value{tramp} can and cannot do.

For the end user:

* Obtaining Tramp::             How to obtain @value{tramp}.
* History::                     History of @value{tramp}.
@ifset installchapter
* Installation::                Installing @value{tramp} with your @value{emacsname}.
@end ifset
* Configuration::               Configuring @value{tramp} for use.
* Usage::                       An overview of the operation of @value{tramp}.
* Bug Reports::                 Reporting Bugs and Problems.
* Frequently Asked Questions::  Questions and answers from the mailing list.

For the developer:

* Files directories and localnames::  How file names, directories and localnames are mangled and managed.
* Traces and Profiles::         How to Customize Traces.
* Issues::                      Debatable Issues and What Was Decided.

* GNU Free Documentation License:: The license for this documentation.
* Function Index::              @value{tramp} functions.
* Variable Index::              User options and variables.
* Concept Index::               An item for each concept.

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---
@c
@ifset installchapter
Installing @value{tramp} with your @value{emacsname}

* Installation parameters::     Parameters in order to control installation.
* Load paths::                  How to plug-in @value{tramp} into your environment.

@end ifset

Configuring @value{tramp} for use

* Connection types::            Types of connections made to remote hosts.
* Inline methods::              Inline methods.
* External methods::            External methods.
@ifset emacsgvfs
* GVFS based methods::          GVFS based external methods.
@end ifset
@ifset emacsgw
* Gateway methods::             Gateway methods.
@end ifset
* Default Method::              Selecting a default method.
* Default User::                Selecting a default user.
* Default Host::                Selecting a default host.
* Multi-hops::                  Connecting to a remote host using multiple hops.
* Customizing Methods::         Using Non-Standard Methods.
* Customizing Completion::      Selecting config files for user/host name completion.
* Password handling::           Reusing passwords for several connections.
* Connection caching::          Reusing connection related information.
* Predefined connection information::
                                Setting own connection related information.
* Remote programs::             How @value{tramp} finds and uses programs on the remote host.
* Remote shell setup::          Remote shell setup hints.
* Android shell setup::         Android shell setup hints.
* Auto-save and Backup::        Auto-save and Backup.
* Windows setup hints::         Issues with Cygwin ssh.

Using @value{tramp}

* File name Syntax::            @value{tramp} file name conventions.
* File name completion::        File name completion.
* Ad-hoc multi-hops::           Declaring multiple hops in the file name.
* Remote processes::            Integration with other @value{emacsname} packages.
* Cleanup remote connections::  Cleanup remote connections.

How file names, directories and localnames are mangled and managed

* Localname deconstruction::    Breaking a localname into its components.
@ifset emacs
* External packages::           Integration with external Lisp packages.
@end ifset

@end detailmenu
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter An overview of @value{tramp}
@cindex overview

@value{tramp} is for transparently accessing remote files from within
@value{emacsname}.  @value{tramp} enables an easy, convenient, and
consistent interface to remote files as if they are local files.
@value{tramp}'s transparency extends to editing, version control, and
@code{dired}.

@value{tramp} can access remote hosts using any number of connection
methods, such as @command{rsh}, @command{rlogin}, @command{telnet},
and related programs.  If these programs can successfully pass
@acronym{ASCII]} characters, @value{tramp} can use them.  @value{tramp}
does not require or mandate 8-bit clean connections.

@value{tramp}'s most common connection method is through
@command{ssh}, a more secure alternative to @command{ftp} and other
older access methods.

@value{tramp} on Windows operating systems is integrated with the
PuTTY package, and uses the @command{plink} program.

@value{tramp} mostly operates transparently in the background using
the connection programs.  As long as these programs enable remote login
and can use the terminal, @value{tramp} can adapt them for seamless
and transparent access.

@value{tramp} temporarily transfers a remote file's contents to the
local host editing and related operations.  @value{tramp} can also
transfer files between hosts using standard Emacs interfaces, a
benefit of direct integration of @value{tramp} in @value{emacsname}.

@value{tramp} can transfer files using any number of available host
programs for remote files, such as @command{rcp}, @command{scp},
@command{rsync} or (under Windows) @command{pscp}.  @value{tramp}
provides easy ways to specify these programs and customize them to
specific files, hosts, or connections.

For faster small-size file transfers, @value{tramp} supports encoded
transfers directly through the shell using @command{mimencode} or
@command{uuencode} provided such tools are available on the remote
host.


@subsubheading @value{tramp} behind the scenes
@cindex behind the scenes
@cindex details of operation
@cindex how it works

Accessing a remote file through @value{tramp} entails a series of
actions, many of which are transparent to the user.  Yet some actions
may require user response (such as entering passwords or completing
file names).  One typical scenario, opening a file on a remote host, is
presented here to illustrate the steps involved:

@kbd{C-x C-f} to initiate find-file, enter part of the @value{tramp}
file name, then hit @kbd{@key{TAB}} for completion.  If this is the
first time connection to that host, here's what happens:

@itemize
@item
@value{tramp} invokes @samp{telnet @var{host}} or @samp{rsh @var{host}
-l @var{user}} and establishes an external process to connect to the
remote host.  @value{tramp} communicates with the process through an
@value{emacsname} buffer, which also shows output from the remote
host.

@item
The remote host may prompt for a login name (for @command{telnet}, for
example) in the buffer.  If on the other hand, the login name was
included in the file name portion, @value{tramp} sends the login name
followed by a newline.

@item
The remote host may then prompt for a password or pass phrase (for
@command{rsh} or for @command{telnet}).  @value{tramp} displays the
password prompt in the minibuffer.  @value{tramp} then sends whatever
is entered to the remote host, followed by a newline.

@item
@value{tramp} now waits for either the shell prompt or a failed login
message.

If @value{tramp} does not receive any messages within a timeout period
(a minute, for example), then @value{tramp} responds with an error
message about not finding the remote shell prompt.  If any messages
from the remote host, @value{tramp} displays them in the buffer.

For any @samp{login failed} message from the remote host,
@value{tramp} aborts the login attempt, and repeats the login steps
again.

@item
Upon successful login and @value{tramp} recognizes the shell prompt
from the remote host, @value{tramp} prepares the shell environment by
turning off echoing, setting shell prompt, and other housekeeping
chores.

Note that for the remote shell, @value{tramp} invokes
@command{/bin/sh}.  The remote host must recognize @samp{exec /bin/sh}
and execute the appropriate shell.

@item
@value{tramp} executes @command{cd} and @command{ls} commands to find
which files exist on the remote host.  @value{tramp} sometimes uses
@command{echo} with globbing.  @value{tramp} checks if a file or
directory is writable with @command{test}.  After each command,
@value{tramp} parses the output from the remote host for completing
the next operation.

@item
After remote file name completion, @value{tramp} transfers the file
contents from the remote host. 

For inline transfers, @value{tramp} sends a command, such as
@samp{mimencode -b /path/to/remote/file}, waits until the output has
accumulated in the buffer, decodes that output to produce the file's
contents.

For external transfers, @value{tramp} sends a command as follows:
@example
rcp user@@host:/path/to/remote/file /tmp/tramp.4711
@end example
@value{tramp} reads the local temporary file @file{/tmp/tramp.4711}
into a buffer, and then deletes the temporary file.

@item
Edit, modify, change the buffer contents as normal, and then save the
buffer wth @kbd{C-x C-s}.

@item
@value{tramp} transfers the buffer contents to the remote host in
a reverse of the process using the appropriate inline or external
program.
@end itemize

I hope this has provided you with a basic overview of what happens
behind the scenes when you open a file with @value{tramp}.


@c For the end user
@node Obtaining Tramp
@chapter Obtaining Tramp.
@cindex obtaining Tramp

@value{tramp} is included as part of Emacs (since Emacs version 22.1).

@value{tramp} is also freely packaged for download on the Internet at
@uref{ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/tramp/}.

@value{tramp} development versions are available on Git servers.
Development versions contain new and incomplete features. 

One way to obtain from Git server is to visit the Savannah project
page at the following URL and then clicking on the Git link in the
navigation bar at the top.

@noindent
@uref{http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/tramp/}

Another way is to follow the terminal session below:

@example
] @strong{cd ~/@value{emacsdir}}
] @strong{git clone git://git.savannah.gnu.org/tramp.git}
@end example

@noindent
From behind a firewall:

@example
] @strong{git config --global http.proxy http://user:pwd@@proxy.server.com:8080}
] @strong{git clone http://git.savannah.gnu.org/r/tramp.git}
@end example

@noindent
Tramp developers:

@example
] @strong{git clone login@@git.sv.gnu.org:/srv/git/tramp.git}
@end example

@noindent
After one of the above commands, @file{~/@value{emacsdir}/tramp} will
containing the latest version of @value{tramp}.

To fetch updates from the repository, use git pull:

@example
] @strong{cd ~/@value{emacsdir}/tramp}
] @strong{git pull}
@end example

@noindent
Run @command{autoconf} as follows to generate an up-to-date
@file{configure} script:

@example
] @strong{cd ~/@value{emacsdir}/tramp}
] @strong{autoconf}
@end example


@node History
@chapter History of @value{tramp}
@cindex history
@cindex development history

@value{tramp} development started at the end of November 1998 as
@file{rssh.el}.  It provided only one method of access.  It used
@command{ssh} for login and @command{scp} to transfer file contents.
The name was changed to @file{rcp.el} before it got its preset name
@value{tramp}.  New methods of remote access were added, so was support
for version control.

April 2000 was the first time when multi-hop methods were added.  In
July 2002, @value{tramp} unified file names with Ange-FTP.  In July
2004, proxy hosts replaced multi-hop methods.  Running commands on
remote hosts was introduced in December 2005.
@ifset emacsgw
Support for gateways since April 2007.
@end ifset
@ifset emacsgvfs
GVFS integration started in February 2009.
@end ifset
@ifset emacs
Remote commands on Windows hosts since September 2011.
@end ifset
Ad-hoc multi-hop methods (with a changed syntax) re-enabled in November
2011.

In November 2012, added Juergen Hoetzel's @file{tramp-adb.el}.

In December 2001, XEmacs package repository adds @value{tramp}.


@c Installation chapter is necessary only in case of standalone
@c installation.  Text taken from trampinst.texi.
@ifset installchapter
@include trampinst.texi
@end ifset


@node Configuration
@chapter Configuring @value{tramp}
@cindex configuration

@cindex default configuration
@value{tramp} is initially configured to use the @command{scp} program
to connect to the remote host.  Just type @kbd{C-x C-f} and then enter
file name @file{@trampfn{, user, host, /path/to.file}}.  For details,
see @xref{Default Method}.

For problems related to the behavior of remote shell, see @xref{Remote
shell setup} for details.

For changing the connection type and file transfer method from the
defaults to one of several other options, see (@pxref{Connection types}).

@strong{Note} that some user options and variables described in these
examples are not auto loaded by @value{emacsname}.

All examples require @value{tramp} is installed and loaded

@lisp
(require 'tramp)
@end lisp


@menu
* Connection types::            Types of connections made to remote hosts.
* Inline methods::              Inline methods.
* External methods::            External methods.
@ifset emacsgvfs
* GVFS based methods::          GVFS based external methods.
@end ifset
@ifset emacsgw
* Gateway methods::             Gateway methods.
@end ifset
* Default Method::              Selecting a default method.
                                  Here we also try to help those who
                                  don't have the foggiest which method
                                  is right for them.
* Default User::                Selecting a default user.
* Default Host::                Selecting a default host.
* Multi-hops::                  Connecting to a remote host using multiple hops.
* Customizing Methods::         Using Non-Standard Methods.
* Customizing Completion::      Selecting config files for user/host name completion.
* Password handling::           Reusing passwords for several connections.
* Connection caching::          Reusing connection related information.
* Predefined connection information::
                                Setting own connection related information.
* Remote programs::             How @value{tramp} finds and uses programs on the remote host.
* Remote shell setup::          Remote shell setup hints.
* Android shell setup::         Android shell setup hints.
* Auto-save and Backup::        Auto-save and Backup.
* Windows setup hints::         Issues with Cygwin ssh.
@end menu


@node Connection types
@section Types of connections to remote hosts
@cindex connection types, overview

@dfn{inline method} and @dfn{external method} are the two basic types
of transfer methods.  While they both use the same remote shell access
programs, such as @command{rsh}, @command{ssh}, or @command{telnet},
they differ in the file transfer methods.  Choosing the right method
becomes important for editing files, transferring large files, or
operating on a large number of files.

@cindex inline methods
@cindex external methods
@cindex methods, inline
@cindex methods, external

The performance of the external methods is generally better than that
of the inline methods, at least for large files.  This is caused by
the need to encode and decode the data when transferring inline.

The one exception to this rule are the @command{scp} based transfer
methods.  While these methods do see better performance when actually
transferring files, the overhead of the cryptographic negotiation at
startup may drown out the improvement in file transfer times.

External methods should be configured such a way that they don't
require a password (with @command{ssh-agent}, or such alike).  Modern
@command{scp} implementations offer options to reuse existing
@command{ssh} connections, which will be enabled by default if
available.  If it isn't possible, you should consider @ref{Password
handling}, otherwise you will be prompted for a password every copy
action.


@node Inline methods
@section Inline methods
@cindex inline methods
@cindex methods, inline

Inline methods use the same login connection to transfer file
contents.  Inline methods are quick and easy for small files.  They
depend on the availability of suitable encoding and decoding programs
on the remote host.  For local source and destination, @value{tramp}
may use built-in equivalents of such programs in @value{emacsname}.

Inline methods can work in situations where an external transfer
program is unavailable.  Inline methods also work when transferring
files between different @emph{user identities} on the same host.

@cindex uuencode
@cindex mimencode
@cindex base-64 encoding
@value{tramp} checks the remote host for the availability and
usability of @command{mimencode} (part of the @command{metamail}
package) or @command{uuencode}.  @value{tramp} uses the first reliable
command it finds.  @value{tramp}'s search path can be customized, see
@ref{Remote programs}.

In case both @command{mimencode} and @command{uuencode} are
unavailable, @value{tramp} first transfers a small Perl program to the
remote host, and then tries that program for encoding and decoding.

To increase transfer speeds for large text files, use compression
before encoding.  The variable @var{tramp-inline-compress-start-size}
specifies the file size for such optimization.

@table @asis
@item @option{rsh}
@cindex method rsh
@cindex rsh method

@command{rsh} is an option for connecting to hosts within local
networks since @command{rsh} is not as secure as other methods.


@item @option{ssh}
@cindex method ssh
@cindex ssh method

@command{ssh} is a more secure option than others to connect to a
remote host.

@command{ssh} can also take extra parameters as port numbers.  For
example, a host on port 42 is specified as @file{host#42} (the real
host name, a hash sign, then a port number).  It is the same as passing
@code{-p 42} to the @command{ssh} command.

@item @option{telnet}
@cindex method telnet
@cindex telnet method

Connecting to a remote host with @command{telnet} is as insecure
as the @option{rsh} method.


@item @option{su}
@cindex method su
@cindex su method

Instead of connecting to a remote host, @command{su} program allows
editing as another user.  The host can be either @samp{localhost} or
the host returned by the function @command{(system-name)}.  See
@ref{Multi-hops} for an exception to this behavior.

@item @option{sudo}
@cindex method sudo
@cindex sudo method

Similar to @option{su} method, @option{sudo} uses @command{sudo}.
@command{sudo} must have sufficient rights to start a shell.

@item @option{sshx}
@cindex method sshx
@cindex sshx method

Works like @option{ssh} but without the extra authentication prompts.
@option{sshx} uses @samp{ssh -t -t @var{host} -l @var{user} /bin/sh}
to open a connection with a ``standard'' login shell.

Note that @option{sshx} does not bypass authentication questions.  For
example, if the host key of the remote host is not known,
@command{sshx} will still ask ``Are you sure you want to continue
connecting?'' @value{tramp} cannot handle such questions.  Connections
will have to be setup where logins can proceed without such questions.

@option{sshx} is useful for Windows users when @command{ssh} triggers
an error about allocating a pseudo tty.  This happens due to missing
shell prompts that confuses @value{tramp}.

@option{sshx} supports the @samp{-p} argument.

@item @option{krlogin}
@cindex method krlogin
@cindex krlogin method
@cindex Kerberos (with krlogin method)

This method is also similar to @option{ssh}.  It uses the
@command{krlogin -x} command only for remote host login.

@item @option{ksu}
@cindex method ksu
@cindex ksu method
@cindex Kerberos (with ksu method)

This is another method from the Kerberos suite.  It behaves like @option{su}.


@item @option{plink}
@cindex method plink
@cindex plink method

@option{plink} method is for Windows users with the PuTTY
implementation of SSH@.  It uses @samp{plink -ssh} to log in to the
remote host.

Check the @samp{Share SSH connections if possible} control for that
session.

@option{plink} method supports the @samp{-P} argument.


@item @option{plinkx}
@cindex method plinkx
@cindex plinkx method

Another method using PuTTY on Windows with session nams instead of
host names.  @option{plinkx} calls @samp{plink -load @var{session} -t}.
User names and port numbers must be defined in the session.

Check the @samp{Share SSH connections if possible} control for that
session.

@end table


@node External methods
@section External methods
@cindex methods, external
@cindex external methods

External methods operate over multiple channels, using the remote
shell connection for some actions while delegating file transfers to
an external transfer program.

External methods save on the overhead of encoding and decoding of
inline methods.

Since external methods have the overhead of opening a new channel,
files smaller than @var{tramp-copy-size-limit} still use inline
methods. 

@table @asis
@item @option{rcp}---@command{rsh} and @command{rcp}
@cindex method rcp
@cindex rcp method
@cindex rcp (with rcp method)
@cindex rsh (with rcp method)

This method uses the @command{rsh} and @command{rcp} commands to
connect to the remote host and transfer files.  This is the fastest
connection method available.

The alternative method @option{remcp} uses the @command{remsh} and
@command{rcp} commands.

@item @option{scp}---@command{ssh} and @command{scp}
@cindex method scp
@cindex scp method
@cindex scp (with scp method)
@cindex ssh (with scp method)

Using a combination of @command{ssh} to connect and @command{scp} to
transfer is the most secure.  While the performance is good, it is
slower than the inline methods for smaller files.  Though there is no
overhead of encoding and decoding of the inline methods,
@command{scp}'s cryptographic handshake negates those speed gains.

@command{ssh} methods support @samp{-p} feature for specifying port
numbers.  For example, @file{host#42} passes @samp{-p 42} in the
argument list to @command{ssh}, and @samp{-P 42} in the argument list
to @command{scp}.

@item @option{rsync}---@command{ssh} and @command{rsync}
@cindex method rsync
@cindex rsync method
@cindex rsync (with rsync method)
@cindex ssh (with rsync method)

@command{ssh} command to connect in combination with @command{rsync}
command to transfer is similar to the @option{scp} method.

While @command{rsync} performs much better than @command{scp} when
transferring files that exist on both hosts.  However, this advantage
is lost if the file exists only on one side of the connection.

This method supports the @samp{-p} argument.


@item @option{scpx}---@command{ssh} and @command{scp}
@cindex method scpx
@cindex scpx method
@cindex scp (with scpx method)
@cindex ssh (with scpx method)

@option{scpx} is useful to avoid login shell questions.  It is similar
in performance to @option{scp}.  @option{scpx} uses @samp{ssh -t -t
@var{host} -l @var{user} /bin/sh} to open a connection.

@option{sshx} is useful for Windows users when @command{ssh} triggers
an error about allocating a pseudo tty.  This happens due to missing
shell prompts that confuses @value{tramp}.

This method supports the @samp{-p} argument.


@item @option{pscp}---@command{plink} and @command{pscp}
@item @option{psftp}---@command{plink} and @command{psftp}
@cindex method pscp
@cindex pscp method
@cindex pscp (with pscp method)
@cindex plink (with pscp method)
@cindex PuTTY (with pscp method)
@cindex method psftp
@cindex psftp method
@cindex pscp (with psftp method)
@cindex plink (with psftp method)
@cindex PuTTY (with psftp method)

These methods are similar to @option{scp} or @option{sftp}, but they
use the @command{plink} command to connect to the remote host, and
they use @command{pscp} or @command{psftp} for transferring the files.
These programs are part of PuTTY, an SSH implementation for Windows.

Check the @samp{Share SSH connections if possible} control for that
session.

These methods support the @samp{-P} argument.


@item @option{fcp}---@command{fsh} and @command{fcp}
@cindex method fcp
@cindex fcp method
@cindex fsh (with fcp method)
@cindex fcp (with fcp method)

This method is similar to @option{scp}, but uses @command{fsh} to
connect and @command{fcp} to transfer files.  @command{fsh/fcp}, a
front-end for @command{ssh}, reuse @command{ssh} session by
submitting several commands.  This avoids the startup overhead due to
@command{scp}'s secure connection.  Inline methods have similar
benefits.

The command used for this connection is: @samp{fsh @var{host} -l
@var{user} /bin/sh -i}

@cindex method fsh
@cindex fsh method

@command{fsh} has no inline method since the multiplexing it offers is
not useful for @value{tramp}.  @command{fsh} connects to remote host
and @value{tramp} keeps that one connection open.

@item @option{nc}---@command{telnet} and @command{nc}
@cindex method nc
@cindex nc method
@cindex nc (with nc method)
@cindex telnet (with nc method)

Using @command{telnet} to connect and @command{nc} to transfer files
is sometimes the only combination suitable for accessing routers or
NAS hosts.  These dumb devices have severely restricted local shells,
such as the @command{busybox} and do not host any other encode or
decode programs.

@item @option{ftp}
@cindex method ftp
@cindex ftp method

When @value{tramp} uses @option{ftp}, it forwards requests to whatever
ftp program is specified by @value{ftppackagename}.  This external
program must be capable of servicing requests from @value{tramp}.

@ifset xemacs
This method works only for unified file names, see @ref{Issues}.
@end ifset


@item @option{smb}---@command{smbclient}
@cindex method smb
@cindex smb method

This is another non-native @value{tramp} method.  @command{smbclient}
connects to any host with SMB/CIFS protocol, such as MS Windows and
Samba Servers running on Unixes.  Tests show this @value{tramp} method
works with MS Windows NT, MS Windows 2000, MS Windows XP, MS Windows
Vista, and MS Windows 7.

Using @command{smbclient} requires a few tweaks when working with
@value{tramp}:

The first directory in the localname must be a share name on the
remote host.

Since smb shares end in the @code{$} character, @value{tramp} must use
@code{$$} when specifying those shares to avoid environment variable
substitutions.

When @value{tramp} is not specific about the share name or uses the
generic remote directory @code{/}, @command{smbclient} returns all
available shares.

Since SMB authentication is based on each SMB share, @value{tramp}
prompts for a password even when accessing a different share on the
same SMB host.  This prompting can be suppressed by @ref{Password
handling}.

To accommodate user name/domain name syntax required by MS Windows
authorization, @value{tramp} provides for an extended syntax in
@code{user%domain} format (where user is username, @code{%} is the
percent symbol, and domain is the windows domain name).  An example:

@file{@trampfn{smb, daniel%BIZARRE, melancholia, /daniel$$/.emacs}}

where user @code{daniel} connects as a domain user to the SMB host
@code{melancholia} in the windows domain @code{BIZARRE} to edit
@file{.emacs} located in the home directory (share @code{daniel$}).

Alternatively, for local WINS users (as opposed to domain users),
substitute the domain name with the name of the local host in
UPPERCASE as shown here:

@file{@trampfn{smb, daniel%MELANCHOLIA, melancholia, /daniel$$/.emacs}}

where user @code{daniel} connects as local user to the SMB host
@code{melancholia} in the local domain @code{MELANCHOLIA} to edit
@file{.emacs} located in the home directory (share @code{daniel$}).

The domain name and user name are optional for @command{smbclient}
authentication.  When user name is not specified, @command{smbclient}
uses the anonymous user (without prompting for password).  This
behavior is unlike other @value{tramp} methods, where local user name
is substituted.

@option{smb} method is unavailable if @value{emacsname} is run under a
local user authentication context in MS Windows.  However such users
can still access remote files using UNC file names:

@file{//melancholia/daniel$$/.emacs}

UNC file name specification does not allow @value{tramp} to specify a
different user name for authentication like the @command{smbclient}
can.


@item @option{adb}
@cindex method adb
@cindex adb method

This method uses Android Debug Bridge program for accessing Android
devices.  The Android Debug Bridge must be installed locally for
@value{tramp} to work.  Some GNU/Linux distributions provide Android
Debug Bridge as an installation package.  Alternatively, the program is
installed as part of the Android SDK@.  @value{tramp} finds the
@command{adb} program either via the @env{PATH} environment variable
or the absolute path set in the variable @var{tramp-adb-program}.

@value{tramp} connects to Android devices with @command{adb} only when
the custom option @option{tramp-adb-connect-if-not-connected} is not
@code{nil}.

@value{tramp} does not require a host name part of the remote file
name when a single Android device is connected to @command{adb}.
@value{tramp} instead uses @file{@trampfn{adb, , ,}} as the default
name.  @command{adb devices} shows available host names.

@command{adb} method normally does not need user name to authenticate
on the Andriod device because it runs under the @command{adbd}
process.  But when a user name is specified, however, @value{tramp}
applies an @command{su} in the syntax.  When authentication does not
succeed, especially on un-rooted Android devices, @value{tramp}
displays login errors.

For Andriod devices connected through TCP/IP, a port number can be
specified using @file{device#42} syntax or @value{tramp} can use the
default value as declared in @command{adb} command.  Port numbers are
not applicable to Android devices connected through USB.

@end table


@ifset emacsgvfs
@node GVFS based methods
@section GVFS based external methods
@cindex methods, gvfs
@cindex gvfs based methods
@cindex dbus

GVFS is the virtual file system for the Gnome Desktop,
@uref{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GVFS}.  Remote files on GVFS are
mounted locally through FUSE@ and @value{tramp} uses this locally
mounted directory internally.

@value{emacsname} uses the D-Bus mechanism to communicate with GVFS.
@value{emacsname} must have the message bus system, D-Bus integration
active, @pxref{Top, , D-Bus, dbus}.

@table @asis
@item @option{afp}
@cindex method afp
@cindex afp method

This method is for connecting to remote hosts with the Apple Filing
Protocol for accessing files on Mac OS X volumes.  @value{tramp} access
syntax requires a leading volume (share) name, for example:
@file{@trampfn{afp, user, host, /volume}}.

@item @option{dav}
@cindex method dav
@cindex method davs
@cindex dav method
@cindex davs method

@option{dav} method provides access to WebDAV files and directories
based on standard protocols, such as HTTP.  @option{davs} does the same
but with SSL encryption.  Both methods support the port numbers.

@item @option{obex}
@cindex method obex
@cindex obex method

OBEX is an FTP-like access protocol for cell phones and similar simple
devices.  @value{tramp} supports OBEX over Bluetooth.


@item @option{sftp}
@cindex method sftp
@cindex sftp method

This method uses @command{sftp} in order to securely access remote
hosts.  @command{sftp} is a more secure option for connecting to hosts
that for security reasons refuse @command{ssh} connections.

@item @option{synce}
@cindex method synce
@cindex synce method

@option{synce} method allows connecting to Windows Mobile devices.  It
uses GVFS for mounting remote files and directories via FUSE and
requires the SYNCE-GVFS plugin.

@end table

@vindex tramp-gvfs-methods
@defopt tramp-gvfs-methods
This custom option is a list of external methods for GVFS@.  By
default, this list includes @option{afp}, @option{dav}, @option{davs},
@option{obex}, @option{sftp} and @option{synce}.  Other methods to
include are: @option{ftp} and @option{smb}.
@end defopt
@end ifset


@ifset emacsgw
@node Gateway methods
@section Gateway methods
@cindex methods, gateway
@cindex gateway methods

Gateway methods are for proxy host declarations (@pxref{Multi-hops})
so as to pass through firewalls and proxy servers.  They are not like
the other methods that declare direct connections to a remote host.

A gateway method always comes with a port setting.  @value{tramp}
targets the port number with the gateway method
@file{localhost#random_port} from where the firewall or proxy server
is accessed.

Gateway methods support user name and password declarations for
authenticating the corresponding firewall or proxy server.  Such
authentication can be passed through only if granted access by system
administrators.

@table @asis
@item @option{tunnel}
@cindex method tunnel
@cindex tunnel method

This method implements an HTTP tunnel via the @command{CONNECT}
command (conforming to RFC 2616, 2817 specifications).  Proxy servers
using HTTP version 1.1 or later protocol support this command.

For authentication, this protocol uses only @option{Basic
Authentication} (see RFC 2617).  When no port number is specified, this
protocol defaults to @option{8080}.


@item @option{socks}
@cindex method socks
@cindex socks method

The @command{socks} method connects to SOCKSv5 servers (see RFC 1928)
and supports @option{Username/Password Authentication}.

The default port number for the socks server is @option{1080}, if not
specified otherwise.

@end table
@end ifset


@node Default Method
@section Selecting a default method
@cindex default method

@vindex tramp-default-method
Default method is for transferring files.  The variable
@code{tramp-default-method} sets it.  @value{tramp} uses this variable
to determine the default method for tramp file names that do not have
one specified.

@lisp
(setq tramp-default-method "ssh")
@end lisp

@vindex tramp-default-method-alist
Default methods for transferring files can be customized for specific
user and host combinations through the alist variable
@code{tramp-default-method-alist}.

For example, the following two lines specify to use the @option{ssh}
method for all user names matching @samp{john} and the @option{rsync}
method for all host names matching @samp{lily}.  The third line
specifies to use the @option{su} method for the user @samp{root} on
the host @samp{localhost}.

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-method-alist '("" "john" "ssh"))
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-method-alist '("lily" "" "rsync"))
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-method-alist
             '("\\`localhost\\'" "\\`root\\'" "su"))
@end lisp

@noindent
See the documentation for the variable
@code{tramp-default-method-alist} for alist details.

External methods performance faster for large files.

@xref{Inline methods}.
@xref{External methods}.

Choosing the transfer method also depends on the security environment.
For example, @option{rsh} and @option{telnet} methods that use clear
text transfers are inappropriate for over the Internet connections.
Secure remote connections should use @option{ssh} that provide
encryption.

@subsection Which method to use?
@cindex choosing the right method

@value{tramp} provides maximum number of choices for maximum
flexibility.  Choosing which method depends on the hosts, clients,
network speeds, and the security context.

Start by using an inline method.

External methods might be more efficient for large files, but most
@value{tramp} users edit small files more often than large files.

Enable compression, @var{tramp-inline-compress-start-size}, for a
performance boost for large files.

Since @command{ssh} has become the most common method of remote host
access and it has the most reasonable security protocols, use
@option{ssh} method.

Typical @option{ssh} usage to edit the @file{/etc/motd} file on the
otherhost.

@kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{ssh, root, otherhost,/etc/motd} @key{RET}}

If @option{ssh} is unavailable for whatever reason, look for other
obvious options.  For Windows, try the @option{plink} method.  For
Kerberos, try @option{krlogin}.

For editing local files as @option{su} or @option{sudo} methods, try
the shortened syntax of @samp{root}:

@file{@trampfn{su, , , /etc/motd}}

For editing large files, @option{scp} is faster than @option{ssh}.
@option{pscp} is faster than @option{plink}.  But this speed
improvement is not always true.


@node Default User
@section Selecting a default user
@cindex default user

@code{tramp-default-user} is regarded as obsolete, and will be removed
soon.  See @code{tramp-default-user-alist}.

@value{tramp} file name can omit the user name part since
@value{tramp} substitutes the currently logged-in user name.  However
this substitution can be overridden with @code{tramp-default-user}.
For example:

@lisp
(setq tramp-default-user "root")
@end lisp

@vindex tramp-default-user-alist
Instead of a single default user, @code{tramp-default-user-alist}
allows multiple default user values based on access method or host
name combinations.  The alist can hold multiple values.  For example, to
use the @samp{john} as the default user for the domain
@samp{somewhere.else} only:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-user-alist
             '("ssh" ".*\\.somewhere\\.else\\'" "john"))
@end lisp

@noindent
See the documentation for the variable @code{tramp-default-user-alist}
for more details.

A Caution: @value{tramp} will override any default user specified in
the configuration files outside @value{emacsname}, such as
@file{~/.ssh/config}.  To stop @value{tramp} from applying the default
value, set the corresponding alist entry to nil:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-user-alist
             '("ssh" "\\`here\\.somewhere\\.else\\'" nil))
@end lisp

The last entry in @code{tramp-default-user-alist} should be reserved
for catch-all or most often used login.

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-user-alist
             '(nil nil "jonas") t)
@end lisp


@node Default Host
@section Selecting a default host
@cindex default host

@vindex tramp-default-host
When host name is omitted, @value{tramp} substitutes the value from
the @code{tramp-default-host} variable.  It is initially populated with
the local hostname where @value{emacsname} is running.  Both the
default user and default host can be overridden as follows:

@lisp
(setq tramp-default-user "john"
      tramp-default-host "target")
@end lisp

With both defaults set, @samp{@trampfn{ssh, , ,}} will connect
@value{tramp} to John's home directory on target.

@ifset emacs
Note @samp{/::} won't work, because @samp{/:} is the prefix for quoted
file names.
@end ifset

@vindex tramp-default-host-alist
Instead of a single default host, @code{tramp-default-host-alist}
allows multiple default host values based on access method or user
name combinations.  The alist can hold multiple values.  While
@code{tramp-default-host} is sufficient in most cases, some methods,
like @option{adb}, require defaults overwritten.

@noindent
See the documentation for the variable @code{tramp-default-host-alist}
for more details.


@node Multi-hops
@section Connecting to a remote host using multiple hops
@cindex multi-hop
@cindex proxy hosts

Multi-hops are methods to reach hosts behind firewalls or to reach the
outside world from inside a bastion host.  With multi-hops,
@value{tramp} can negotiate these hops with the appropriate user/host
authentication at each hop.  All methods until now have been the single
hop kind, where the start and end points of the connection did not
have intermediate check points.

@vindex tramp-default-proxies-alist
@defopt tramp-default-proxies-alist
@option{tramp-default-proxies-alist} specifies proxy hosts to pass
through.  This variable is list of triples consisting of (@var{host}
@var{user} @var{proxy}).

The first match is the proxy host through which passes the file name
and the target host matching @var{user}@@@var{host}.  @var{host} and
@var{user} are regular expressions or @code{nil}, interpreted as a
regular expression which always matches.

@var{proxy} is a Tramp file name whose local name part is ignored,
and the method and user name parts are optional.

@ifset emacsgw
The method must be an inline or gateway method (@pxref{Inline
methods}, @pxref{Gateway methods}).
@end ifset
@ifclear emacsgw
The method must be an inline method (@pxref{Inline methods}).
@end ifclear
If @var{proxy} is @code{nil}, no additional hop is required reaching
@var{user}@@@var{host}.

For example, to pass through the host @samp{bastion.your.domain} as
user @samp{bird} to reach remote hosts outside the local domain:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-proxies-alist
             '("\\." nil "@trampfn{ssh, bird, bastion.your.domain,}"))
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-proxies-alist
             '("\\.your\\.domain\\'" nil nil))
@end lisp

Note: @code{add-to-list} adds elements at the beginning of a list.
Therefore, most relevant rules must come last in the list.

Proxy hosts can be cascaded in the alist entry.  If there is another
host called @samp{jump.your.domain}, which is the only host allowed to
connect to @samp{bastion.your.domain}, then:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-proxies-alist
             '("\\`bastion\\.your\\.domain\\'"
               "\\`bird\\'"
               "@trampfn{ssh, , jump.your.domain,}"))
@end lisp

@var{proxy} can take patterns @code{%h} or @code{%u} for @var{host} or
@var{user} respectively.

To login as @samp{root} on remote hosts in the domain
@samp{your.domain}, but login as @samp{root} is disabled for non-local
access, then use this alist entry:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-proxies-alist
             '("\\.your\\.domain\\'" "\\`root\\'" "@trampfn{ssh, , %h,}"))
@end lisp

Opening @file{@trampfn{sudo, , randomhost.your.domain,}} first
connects to @samp{randomhost.your.domain} via @code{ssh} under your
account name, and then perform @code{sudo -u root} on that host.

It is key for the sudo method in the above example to be applied on
the host after reaching it and not on the local host.

@var{host}, @var{user} and @var{proxy} can also take Lisp forms.  These
forms when evaluated must return either a string or a @code{nil}.

To generalize (from the previous example): For all hosts, except my
local one, first connect via @command{ssh}, and then apply
@command{sudo -u root}:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-proxies-alist
             '(nil "\\`root\\'" "@trampfn{ssh, , %h,}"))
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-proxies-alist
             '((regexp-quote (system-name)) nil nil))
@end lisp

The above configuration allows @value{tramp} connection as @samp{root}
to remote Ubuntu hosts.

@ifset emacsgw
@code{tramp-default-proxies-alist} is also used for passing through
firewalls or proxy servers.

For example, the local host @samp{proxy.your.domain} on port 3128
serves as HTTP proxy to the outer world.  User has access rights to
another proxy server on @samp{host.other.domain}.  @footnote{HTTP tunnels
are intended for secure SSL/TLS communication.  Therefore, many proxy
servers restrict the tunnels to related target ports.  You might need
to run your ssh server on your target host @samp{host.other.domain} on
such a port, like 443 (https).  See
@uref{http://savannah.gnu.org/maintenance/CvsFromBehindFirewall} for
discussion of ethical issues.} Then the configuration is:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-default-proxies-alist
             '("\\`host\\.other\\.domain\\'" nil
             "@trampfn{tunnel, , proxy.your.domain#3128,}"))
@end lisp

bbGateway methods in a multiple hop chain can be declared only as the first hop.
@end ifset
@end defopt

Passing through hops involves dealing with restricted shells, such as
@command{rbash}.  If @value{tramp} is made aware, then it would use
them for proxies only.

@vindex tramp-restricted-shell-hosts-alist
@defopt tramp-restricted-shell-hosts-alist
An alist of hosts running restricted shells, such as @command{rbash}.
@value{tramp} will then use them only as proxies.

To specify the bastion host from the example above as running a
restricted shell:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-restricted-shell-hosts-alist
             "\\`bastion\\.your\\.domain\\'")
@end lisp
@end defopt


@node Customizing Methods
@section Using Non-Standard Methods
@cindex customizing methods
@cindex using non-standard methods
@cindex create your own methods

The @code{tramp-methods} variable currently has an exhaustive list of
predefined methods.  Any part of this list can be modified with more
suitable settings.  Refer to the Lisp documentation of that variable,
accessible with @kbd{C-h v tramp-methods @key{RET}}.


@node Customizing Completion
@section Selecting config files for user/host name completion
@cindex customizing completion
@cindex selecting config files
@vindex tramp-completion-function-alist

@code{tramp-completion-function-alist} uses predefined files for user
and host name completion (@pxref{File name completion}).  For each
method, it keeps a set of configuration files and a function that can
parse that file.  Each entry in @code{tramp-completion-function-alist}
is of the form (@var{method} @var{pair1} @var{pair2} @dots{}).

Each @var{pair} is composed of (@var{function} @var{file}).
@var{function} is responsible for extracting user names and host names
from @var{file} for completion.  There are two functions which access
this variable:

@defun tramp-get-completion-function method
This function returns the list of completion functions for @var{method}.

Example:
@example
(tramp-get-completion-function "rsh")

     @result{} ((tramp-parse-rhosts "/etc/hosts.equiv")
         (tramp-parse-rhosts "~/.rhosts"))
@end example
@end defun

@defun tramp-set-completion-function method function-list
This function sets @var{function-list} as list of completion functions
for @var{method}.

Example:
@example
(tramp-set-completion-function "ssh"
 '((tramp-parse-sconfig "/etc/ssh_config")
   (tramp-parse-sconfig "~/.ssh/config")))

     @result{} ((tramp-parse-sconfig "/etc/ssh_config")
         (tramp-parse-sconfig "~/.ssh/config"))
@end example
@end defun

The following predefined function parsing configuration files exist:

@table @asis
@item @code{tramp-parse-rhosts}
@findex tramp-parse-rhosts

This function parses files which are syntactical equivalent to
@file{~/.rhosts}.  It returns both host names and user names, if
specified.

@item @code{tramp-parse-shosts}
@findex tramp-parse-shosts

This function parses files which are syntactical equivalent to
@file{~/.ssh/known_hosts}.  Since there are no user names specified
in such files, it can return host names only.

@item @code{tramp-parse-sconfig}
@findex tramp-parse-shosts

This function returns the host nicknames defined by @code{Host} entries
in @file{~/.ssh/config} style files.

@item @code{tramp-parse-shostkeys}
@findex tramp-parse-shostkeys

SSH2 parsing of directories @file{/etc/ssh2/hostkeys/*} and
@file{~/ssh2/hostkeys/*}.  Hosts are coded in file names
@file{hostkey_@var{portnumber}_@var{host-name}.pub}.  User names
are always @code{nil}.

@item @code{tramp-parse-sknownhosts}
@findex tramp-parse-shostkeys

Another SSH2 style parsing of directories like
@file{/etc/ssh2/knownhosts/*} and @file{~/ssh2/knownhosts/*}.  This
case, hosts names are coded in file names
@file{@var{host-name}.@var{algorithm}.pub}.  User names are always @code{nil}.

@item @code{tramp-parse-hosts}
@findex tramp-parse-hosts

A function dedicated to @file{/etc/hosts} for host names.

@item @code{tramp-parse-passwd}
@findex tramp-parse-passwd

A function which parses @file{/etc/passwd} files for user names.

@item @code{tramp-parse-netrc}
@findex tramp-parse-netrc

A function which parses @file{~/.netrc} and @file{~/.authinfo}-style files.

@end table

To keep a custom file with custom data in a custom structure, a custom
function has to be provided. This function must meet the following
conventions:

@defun my-tramp-parse file
@var{file} must be either a file on the host, or @code{nil}. The
function must return a list of (@var{user} @var{host}), which are
taken as candidates for completion for user and host names.

Example:
@example
(my-tramp-parse "~/.my-tramp-hosts")

     @result{} ((nil "toto") ("daniel" "melancholia"))
@end example
@end defun


@node Password handling
@section Reusing passwords for several connections
@cindex passwords

To avoid repeated prompts for passwords, consider native caching
mechanisms, such as @command{ssh-agent} for @option{ssh}-like
methods, or @command{pageant} for @option{plink}-like methods.

@value{tramp} offers alternatives when native solutions cannot meet
the need.

@anchor{Using an authentication file}
@subsection Using an authentication file

@vindex auth-sources
The package @file{auth-source.el}, originally developed for No Gnus,
reads passwords from a file. The default authentication file is
@file{~/.authinfo.gpg}, but this can be changed via the variable
@code{auth-sources}.

@noindent
A typical entry in the authentication file:

@example
machine melancholia port scp login daniel password geheim
@end example

The port can take any @value{tramp} method (@pxref{Inline methods},
@pxref{External methods}).  Omitting port values matches all
@value{tramp} methods.

Setting @code{auth-source-debug} to @code{t} to debug messages.

@anchor{Caching passwords}
@subsection Caching passwords

@value{tramp} can cache passwords as entered and reuse when needed for
the same user or host name independent of the connection method.

@vindex password-cache-expiry
@code{password-cache-expiry} sets the duration (in seconds) the
passwords are remembered.  Passwords are never saved permanently nor
can they extend beyond the lifetime of the current @value{emacsname}
session.  Set @code{password-cache-expiry} to @code{nil} to disable
expiration.

@vindex password-cache
Set @code{password-cache} to @code{nil} to disable password caching.

Implementation Note: password caching depends on
@file{password-cache.el} package.  @value{tramp} activates password
caching only if @value{tramp} can discover, while @value{emacsname} is
loading, the package through @code{load-path}.

@ifset installchapter
@file{password.el} is available from No Gnus or from the @value{tramp}
@file{contrib} directory, see @ref{Installation parameters}.
@end ifset


@node Connection caching
@section Reusing connection related information
@cindex caching

@vindex tramp-persistency-file-name
For faster initial connection times, @value{tramp} stores previous
connection properties in a file specified by the variable
@code{tramp-persistency-file-name}.

The default file name for @code{tramp-persistency-file-name} is:
@ifset emacs
@file{~/.emacs.d/tramp}.
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@file{~/.xemacs/tramp}.
@end ifset

@value{tramp} reads this file during @value{emacsname} startup, and
writes to it when exiting @value{emacsname}.  Delete this file for
@value{tramp} to recreate a new one on next @value{emacsname} startup.

Set @code{tramp-persistency-file-name} to @code{nil} to disable
storing connections persistently.

To reuse connection information from the persistent list,
@value{tramp} needs to uniquely identify every host.  However in some
cases, two different connections may result in the same persistent
information.  For example, connecting to a host using @command{ssh} and
connecting to the same host through @code{sshd} on port 3001.  Both
access methods result in nearly identical persistent specifications
@file{@trampfn{ssh, , localhost,}} and @file{@trampfn{ssh, ,
localhost#3001,}}.

Changing host names could avoid duplicates.  One way is to add a
@option{Host} section in @file{~/.ssh/config} (@pxref{Frequently Asked
Questions}).  Another way it to apply multiple hops (@pxref{Multi-hops}).

When @value{tramp} detects a change in the operating system version in
a remote host (via the command @command{uname -sr}), it flushes all
connection related information for that host and creates a new entry.


@node Predefined connection information
@section Setting own connection related information

For more precise customization, parameters specified by
@code{tramp-methods} can be overwritten manually.

@vindex tramp-connection-properties
Set @code{tramp-connection-properties} to manually override
@code{tramp-methods}.  Properties in this list are in the form
@code{(@var{regexp} @var{property} @var{value})}.  @var{regexp} matches
remote file names.  Use @code{nil} to match all.  @var{property} is the
property's name, and @var{value} is the property's value.

@var{property} is any method specific parameter contained in
@code{tramp-methods}.  The parameter key in @code{tramp-methods} is a
symbol name @code{tramp-<foo>}.  To overwrite that property, use the
string @samp{<foo>} for @var{property}.  For example, this changes the
remote shell:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-connection-properties
             (list (regexp-quote "@trampfn{ssh, user, randomhost.your.domain,}")
                   "remote-shell" "/bin/ksh"))
(add-to-list 'tramp-connection-properties
             (list (regexp-quote "@trampfn{ssh, user, randomhost.your.domain,}")
                   "remote-shell-login" '("-")))
@end lisp

The parameters @code{tramp-remote-shell} and
@code{tramp-remote-shell-login} in @code{tramp-methods} now have new
values for the remote host.

@var{property} could also be any property found in
@code{tramp-persistency-file-name}.

To get around how restricted shells randomly drop connections, set the
special property @samp{busybox}.  For example:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-connection-properties
             (list (regexp-quote "@trampfn{ssh, user, randomhost.your.domain,}")
                   "busybox" t))
@end lisp


@node Remote programs
@section How @value{tramp} finds and uses programs on the remote host

@value{tramp} requires access to and rights to several commands on
remote hosts: @command{ls}, @command{test}, @command{find} and
@command{cat}.

Besides there are other required programs for @ref{Inline methods} and
@ref{External methods} of connection.

To improve performance and accuracy of remote file access,
@value{tramp} uses @command{perl} (or @command{perl5}) and
@command{grep} when available.

@vindex tramp-remote-path
@vindex tramp-default-remote-path
@vindex tramp-own-remote-path
@defopt tramp-remote-path
@option{tramp-remote-path} specifies which remote directory paths
@value{tramp} can search for @ref{Remote programs}.  

@value{tramp} uses standard defaults, such as /bin and /usr/bin, which
are reasonable for most hosts.  To accommodate differences in hosts and
paths, for example, @file{/bin:/usr/bin} on Debian GNU/Linux or
@file{/usr/xpg4/bin:/usr/ccs/bin:/usr/bin:/opt/SUNWspro/bin} on
Solaris, @value{tramp} queries the remote host with @command{getconf
PATH} and updates the symbol @code{tramp-default-remote-path}.

For instances where hosts keep obscure locations for paths for
security reasons, manually add such paths to local @file{.emacs} as
shown below for @value{tramp} to use when connecting.

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-remote-path "/usr/local/perl/bin")
@end lisp

Another way to find the remote path is to use the path assigned to the
remote user by the remote host.  @value{tramp} does not normally retain
this remote path after logging.  However, @code{tramp-own-remote-path}
preserves the path value, which can be used to update
@code{tramp-remote-path}.

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-remote-path 'tramp-own-remote-path)
@end lisp
@end defopt

When remote search paths are changed, local @value{tramp} caches must
be recomputed.  To force @value{tramp} to recompute afresh, exit
@value{emacsname}, remove the persistent file (@pxref{Connection
caching}), and restart @value{emacsname}.


@node Remote shell setup
@section Remote shell setup hints
@cindex remote shell setup
@cindex @file{.profile} file
@cindex @file{.login} file
@cindex shell init files

@value{tramp} checks for the availability of standard programs in the
usual locations.  Common tactics include successively trying
@command{test -e}, @command{/usr/bin/test -e}, and @command{/bin/test
-e}.  @command{ls -d} is another approach.  But these approaches do not
help with these new login patterns.

When @value{tramp} encounters two-factor logins or additional challenge
questions, such as entering birth date or security code or passphrase,
@value{tramp} needs a few more configuration steps to accommodate
them.

The difference between a password prompt and a passphrase prompt is
that the password for completing the login while the passphrase is
for authorizing access to local authentication information, such as
the ssh key.

There is no one configuration to accommodate all the variations in
login security, especially not the exotic ones.  However, @value{tramp}
provides a few tweaks to address the most common ones.

@table @asis
@item @var{shell-prompt-pattern}
@vindex shell-prompt-pattern

@value{tramp}'s one strategy is to intercept shell prompts and then
feed the valid security code or challenge answer to complete the login
process.

The variable @code{shell-prompt-pattern} can be customized to match
the expected remote shell prompt.  This pattern is usually searched for
at the end of a buffer for some common prompt character patterns, such
as @code{>} or @samp{^[^>$][>$] *}.

@item @var{tramp-shell-prompt-pattern}
@vindex tramp-shell-prompt-pattern

@code{tramp-shell-prompt-pattern} is for remote login shell prompt,
which may not be the same as the local login shell prompt,
@code{shell-prompt-pattern}.  Since most hosts use identical prompts,
@value{tramp} sets the same default value for both prompts.

@item @var{tramp-password-prompt-regexp}
@vindex tramp-password-prompt-regexp
@vindex tramp-wrong-passwd-regexp

@value{tramp} uses @var{tramp-password-prompt-regexp} to distinguish
between prompts for passwords and prompts for passphrases.  By default,
@var{tramp-password-prompt-regexp} handles the detection in English
language environments.  See a localization example below:

@lisp
(setq
  tramp-password-prompt-regexp
    (concat
      "^.*"
      (regexp-opt
        '("passphrase" "Passphrase"
          ;; English
          "password" "Password"
          ;; Deutsch
          "passwort" "Passwort"
          ;; Français
          "mot de passe" "Mot de passe") t)
      ".*:\0? *"))
@end lisp

Similar localization may be necessary for handling wrong password
prompts, for which @value{tramp} uses @var{tramp-wrong-passwd-regexp}.

@item @command{tset} and other questions
@cindex Unix command tset
@cindex tset Unix command

To suppress inappropriate prompts for terminal type, @value{tramp} can
set the @env{TERM} to @code{dumb} before the remote login process
begins.  This will silence common @command{tset} related prompts.

@value{tramp}'s strategy for handling such prompts (commonly triggered
from login scripts on remote hosts) is to set the environment
variables so that no prompts interrupt the shell initialization
process.

@vindex tramp-terminal-type
Change the variable @code{tramp-terminal-type} to @code{dumb} to
suppress terminal prompts.

@vindex tramp-actions-before-shell
An alternative approach is to configure @value{tramp} with strings
that can identify such questions using
@code{tramp-actions-before-shell}.  Example:

@lisp
(defconst my-tramp-prompt-regexp
  (concat (regexp-opt '("Enter the birth date of your mother:") t)
          "\\s-*")
  "Regular expression matching my login prompt question.")

(defun my-tramp-action (proc vec)
  "Enter \"19000101\" in order to give a correct answer."
  (save-window-excursion
    (with-current-buffer (tramp-get-connection-buffer vec)
      (tramp-message vec 6 "\n%s" (buffer-string))
      (tramp-send-string vec "19000101"))))

(add-to-list 'tramp-actions-before-shell
             '(my-tramp-prompt-regexp my-tramp-action))
@end lisp


@item Conflicting names for uses and variables in @file{.profile}

When a user name is the same as a variable name in a local file, such
as @file{.profile}, then @value{tramp} may send incorrect values for
environment variables.  To avoid incorrect values, change the local
variable name to something different from the user name.  For example,
if the user name is @env{FRUMPLE}, then change the variable name to
@env{FRUMPLE_DIR}.


@item Non-Bourne commands in @file{.profile}

When the remote host's @file{.profile} is also used for shells other
than Bourne shell, then some incompatible syntaxes for commands in
@file{.profile} may trigger errors in Bourne shell on the host and may
not complete client's  @value{tramp} connections.

One example of a Bourne shell incompatible syntax in @file{.profile}:
using @command{export FOO=bar} instead of @command{FOO=bar; export
FOO}.  After remote login, @value{tramp} will trigger an error during
its execution of @command{/bin/sh} on the remote host because Bourne
shell does not recognize the export command as entered in
@file{.profile}.

Likewise, (@code{~}) character in paths will cause errors because
Bourne shell does not do (@code{~}) character expansions.

One approach to avoiding these incompatibilities is to make all
commands in @file{~/.shrc} and @file{~/.profile} Bourne shell
compatible so @value{tramp} can complete connections to that remote.
To accommodate using non-Bourne shells on that remote, use other
shell-specific config files. For example, bash can use
@file{~/.bash_profile} and ignore @file{.profile}.


@item Interactive shell prompt

@value{tramp} redefines the remote shell prompt internally for robust
parsing. This redefinition affects the looks of a prompt in an
interactive remote shell through commands, such as @kbd{M-x
shell}. Such prompts, however, can be reset to something more readable
and recognizable using these @value{tramp} variables.

@value{tramp} sets the @env{INSIDE_EMACS} variable in the startup
script file @file{~/.emacs_SHELLNAME}.

@env{SHELLNAME} is @code{bash} or equivalent shell names. Change it by
setting the environment variable @env{ESHELL} in the @file{.emacs} as
follows:

@lisp
(setenv "ESHELL" "bash")
@end lisp

Then re-set the prompt string in @file{~/.emacs_SHELLNAME} as follows:

@example
# Reset the prompt for remote Tramp shells.
if [ "$@{INSIDE_EMACS/*tramp*/tramp@}" == "tramp" ] ; then
   PS1="[\u@@\h \w]$ "
fi
@end example

@ifinfo
@ifset emacs
@xref{Interactive Shell, , , @value{emacsdir}}.
@end ifset
@end ifinfo

@item @command{busybox} / @command{nc}
@cindex Unix command nc
@cindex nc Unix command

@value{tramp}'s @option{nc} method uses the @command{nc} command to
install and execute a listener as follows (see @code{tramp-methods}):

@example
# nc -l -p 42
@end example

The above command-line syntax has changed with @command{busybox}
versions.  If @command{nc} refuses the @command{-p} parameter, then
overwrite as follows:

@lisp
(add-to-list
 'tramp-connection-properties
 `(,(regexp-quote "192.168.0.1") "remote-copy-args" (("-l") ("%r"))))
@end lisp

@noindent
where @samp{192.168.0.1} is the remote host IP address
(@pxref{Predefined connection information}).

@end table


@node Android shell setup
@section Android shell setup hints
@cindex android shell setup

@value{tramp} uses the @option{adb} method to access Andriod
devices.  Android devices provide a restricted shell access through an
USB connection.  The local host must have Andriod SDK installed.

Applications such as @code{SSHDroid} that run @command{sshd} process
on the Android device can accept any @option{ssh}-based methods
provided these settings are adjusted:

@code{sh} must be specified for remote shell since Android devices do
not provide @code{/bin/sh}.  @code{sh} will then invoke whatever shell is
installed on the device with this setting:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-connection-properties
	     (list (regexp-quote "192.168.0.26") "remote-shell" "sh"))
@end lisp

@noindent
where @samp{192.168.0.26} is the Android device's IP address.
(@pxref{Predefined connection information}).

@value{tramp} requires preserving @env{PATH} environment variable from
user settings.  Android devices prefer @file{/system/xbin} path over
@file{/system/bin}.  Both of these are set as follows:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-remote-path 'tramp-own-remote-path)
(add-to-list 'tramp-remote-path "/system/xbin")
@end lisp

@noindent
When the Android device is not @samp{rooted}, specify a writable
directory for temporary files:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-remote-process-environment "TMPDIR=$HOME")
@end lisp

@noindent
Open a remote connection with the command @kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{ssh, ,
192.168.0.26#2222, }}, where @command{sshd} is listening on port
@samp{2222}.

The add a corresponding entry to the @file{~/.ssh/config} file
(recommended), use this:

@example
Host android
     HostName 192.168.0.26
     User root
     Port 2222
@end example

@noindent
To use the host name @samp{android} instead of the IP address shown in
the previous example, fix the connection properties as follows:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-connection-properties
	     (list (regexp-quote "android") "remote-shell" "sh"))
@end lisp

@noindent
Open a remote connection with a more concise command @kbd{C-x C-f
@trampfn{ssh, , android, }}.


@node Auto-save and Backup
@section Auto-save and Backup configuration
@cindex auto-save
@cindex backup
@ifset emacs
@vindex backup-directory-alist
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@vindex bkup-backup-directory-info
@end ifset

To avoid @value{tramp} from saving backup files owned by root to
locations accessible to others, default backup settings have to be
altered.

@ifset emacs
@code{backup-directory-alist}.
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@code{bkup-backup-directory-info}.
@end ifset

Here's a scenario where files could be inadvertently 
exposed.  @value{emacsname} by default writes backup files to the same
directory as the original files unless changed to another location,
such as @file{~/.emacs.d/backups/}.  Such a directory will also be used
by default by @value{tramp} when using, say, a restricted file
@file{@trampfn{su, root, localhost, /etc/secretfile}}.  The backup file
of the secretfile is now owned by the user logged in from tramp and
not root.

When
@ifset emacs
@code{backup-directory-alist}
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@code{bkup-backup-directory-info}
@end ifset
is @code{nil} (the default), such problems do not occur.

To ``turns off'' the backup feature for tramp files and stop
@value{tramp} from saving to the backup directory, use this:

@ifset emacs
@code{backup-directory-alist}
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@code{bkup-backup-directory-info}
@end ifset
for @value{tramp} files:

@ifset emacs
@lisp
(add-to-list 'backup-directory-alist
             (cons tramp-file-name-regexp nil))
@end lisp
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@lisp
(require 'backup-dir)
(add-to-list 'bkup-backup-directory-info
             (list tramp-file-name-regexp ""))
@end lisp
@end ifset

@ifset emacs
Disabling backups can be tragetted to just @option{su} and
@option{sudo} methods:

@lisp
(setq backup-enable-predicate
      (lambda (name)
        (and (normal-backup-enable-predicate name)
             (not
              (let ((method (file-remote-p name 'method)))
                (when (stringp method)
                  (member method '("su" "sudo"))))))))
@end lisp
@end ifset

Another option is to create better backup file naming with user and
host names prefixed to the file name.  For example, transforming
@file{/etc/secretfile} to
@file{~/.emacs.d/backups/!su:root@@localhost:!etc!secretfile}.

Set the @value{tramp} variable:
@ifset emacs
@code{tramp-backup-directory-alist}.
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@code{tramp-bkup-backup-directory-info}.
@end ifset

from the existiing variable
@ifset emacs
@code{backup-directory-alist}.
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@code{bkup-backup-directory-info}.
@end ifset

Then @value{tramp} backs up to a file name that is transformed with a
prefix consisting of the DIRECTORY name.  This file name prefixing
happens only when the DIRECTORY is an absolute local file name.

@noindent
Example:

@ifset emacs
@lisp
(add-to-list 'backup-directory-alist
             (cons "." "~/.emacs.d/backups/"))
(setq tramp-backup-directory-alist backup-directory-alist)
@end lisp
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@lisp
(require 'backup-dir)
(add-to-list 'bkup-backup-directory-info
             (list "." "~/.emacs.d/backups/" 'full-path))
(setq tramp-bkup-backup-directory-info bkup-backup-directory-info)
@end lisp
@end ifset

@noindent
The backup file name of @file{@trampfn{su, root, localhost,
/etc/secretfile}} would be
@ifset emacs
@file{@trampfn{su, root, localhost,
~/.emacs.d/backups/!su:root@@localhost:!etc!secretfile~}}
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@file{@trampfn{su, root, localhost,
~/.emacs.d/backups/![su!root@@localhost]!etc!secretfile~}}
@end ifset

Just as for backup files, similar issues of file naming affect
auto-saving @value{tramp} files.
@ifset emacs
Auto-saved files are saved in the directory specified by the variable
@code{auto-save-file-name-transforms}.  By default this is set to the
local temporary directory.  But in some versions of Debian GNU/Linux,
this points to the source directory where the @value{emacsname} was
compiled.   Reset such values to a valid directory.

Set @code{auto-save-file-name-transforms} to @code{nil} to save
auto-saved files to the same directory as the original file.

Alternatively, set the variable @code{tramp-auto-save-directory} to
direct all auto saves to that location.
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@code{auto-save-directory} can also be used here instead of other
locations specfied above.
@end ifset

@node Windows setup hints
@section Issues with Cygwin ssh
@cindex Cygwin, issues

This section is incomplete.  Please share your solutions.

@cindex method sshx with Cygwin
@cindex sshx method with Cygwin
Cygwin's @command{ssh} works only with a Cygwin version of
@value{emacsname}.  To check for compatibility: type @kbd{M-x eshell}, and
start @kbd{ssh test.host}.  Incompatbilities trigger this message:

@example
Pseudo-terminal will not be allocated because stdin is not a terminal.
@end example

Some older versions of Cygwin's @command{ssh} work with the
@option{sshx} connection method.  Consult Cygwin's FAQ at
@uref{http://cygwin.com/faq/} for details.


@cindex method scpx with Cygwin
@cindex scpx method with Cygwin
When using the @option{scpx} connection method, @value{emacsname} may
call @command{scp} with Windows file naming, such as
@code{c:/foo}. But the version of @command{scp} that is installed with
Cygwin does not know about Windows file naming, which causes it to
incorrectly look for a host named @code{c}.

A workaround: write a wrapper script for @option{scp} to convert
Windows file names to Cygwin file names.
 
@cindex Cygwin and ssh-agent
@cindex SSH_AUTH_SOCK and @value{emacsname} on Windows
When using the @command{ssh-agent} on Windows for password-less
interaction, @option{ssh} methods depend on the environment variable
@env{SSH_AUTH_SOCK}.  But this variable is not set when
@value{emacsname} is started from a Desktop shortcut and
authentication fails.

One workaround is to use a Windows based SSH Agent, such as
Pageant.  It is part of the Putty Suite of tools

The fallback is to start @value{emacsname} from a shell.


@node Usage
@chapter Using @value{tramp}
@cindex using @value{tramp}

@value{tramp} operates transparently, accessing remote files as if
they are local.  However, @value{tramp} employs a formalized remote
file naming syntax to perform its functions transparently.  This syntax
consists of many parts specifying connection methods, authentication,
host names, and file names.  @value{ftppackagename} package uses a
similar syntax.

@cindex type-ahead
Unlike opening local files in @value{emacsname}, which are
instantaneous, opening remote files in @value{tramp} is slower at
first.  Sometimes there is a noticable delay before the prompts for
passwords or authentication appear in the minibuffer.  Hitting
@kbd{@key{RET}} or other keys during this gap will be processed by
@value{emacsname}.  This type-ahead facility is a feature of
@value{emacsname} that may cause missed prompts when using
@value{tramp}.

@menu
* File name Syntax::            @value{tramp} file name conventions.
* File name completion::        File name completion.
* Ad-hoc multi-hops::           Declaring multiple hops in the file name.
* Remote processes::            Integration with other @value{emacsname} packages.
* Cleanup remote connections::  Cleanup remote connections.
@end menu


@node File name Syntax
@section @value{tramp} file name conventions
@cindex file name syntax
@cindex file name examples

@file{@trampfn{, , host, localfilename}}
Opens file @var{localfilename} on the remote host @var{host}, using
the default method @xref{Default Method}.

@table @file
@item @value{prefix}melancholia@value{postfix}.emacs
For the file @file{.emacs} located in the home directory, on the host
@code{melancholia}.

@item @value{prefix}melancholia.danann.net@value{postfix}.emacs
For the file @file{.emacs} specified using the fully qualified domain name of
the host.

@item @value{prefix}melancholia@value{postfix}~/.emacs
For the file @file{.emacs} specified using the @file{~}, which is expanded.

@item @value{prefix}melancholia@value{postfix}~daniel/.emacs
For the file @file{.emacs} located in @code{daniel}'s home directory
on the host, @code{melancholia}.  The @file{~<user>} construct is
expanded to the home directory of that user on the remote host.

@item @value{prefix}melancholia@value{postfix}/etc/squid.conf
For the file @file{/etc/squid.conf} on the host @code{melancholia}.

@end table

@var{host} can take IPv4 or IPv6 address, as in @file{@trampfn{, ,
127.0.0.1, .emacs}} or @file{@trampfn{, ,
@value{ipv6prefix}::1@value{ipv6postfix}, .emacs}}.
@ifset emacs
For syntactical reasons, IPv6 addresses must be embedded in square
brackets @file{@value{ipv6prefix}} and @file{@value{ipv6postfix}}.
@end ifset

By default, @value{tramp} will use the current local user name as the
remote user name for log in to the remote host. Specifying a different
name using the proper syntax will override this default behavior:

@file{@trampfn{, user, host, path/to.file}}

@file{@trampfn{, daniel, melancholia, .emacs}} is for file
@file{.emacs} inn @code{daniel}'s home directory on the host,
@code{melancholia}

Specify other file transfer methods (@pxref{Inline methods},
@pxref{External methods}) as part of the file name.

@ifset emacs
Method name comes before user name, as in
@file{@value{prefix}@var{method}@value{postfixhop}} (Note the trailing
colon).
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
This is done by replacing the initial @file{@value{prefix}} with
@file{@value{prefix}<method>@value{postfixhop}}.  (Note the trailing
slash!).
@end ifset
The syntax specificaton for user, host, and file do not change.

To connect to the host @code{melancholia} as @code{daniel}, using
@option{ssh} method for @file{.emacs} in @code{daniel}'s home
directory, the full specification is: @file{@trampfn{ssh, daniel,
melancholia, .emacs}}.

@ifset emacs
A remote file name containing a host name only, which is the same
string as a method name, is not allowed.  Use an explicit method name,
like @file{@value{prefix}ssh@value{postfixhop}ssh@value{postfix}}.
@end ifset

For specifying port numbers, affix @file{#<port>} to the host
name. For example: @file{@trampfn{ssh, daniel, melancholia#42,
.emacs}}.


@node File name completion
@section File name completion
@cindex file name completion

@value{tramp} can complete the following @value{tramp} file name
components: method names, user names, host names, and file names
located on remote hosts.
@ifset emacs
Enable this by activating partial completion in @file{.emacs}.
@ifinfo
@xref{Completion Options, , , @value{emacsdir}}.
@end ifinfo
@end ifset

For example, type @kbd{C-x C-f @value{prefix}t
@key{TAB}}, @value{tramp} completion choices show up as 

@example
@c @multitable {@trampfn{telnet, , melancholia.danann.net,}} {@trampfn{telnet, , 192.168.0.1,}}
@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@ifset emacs
@item @value{prefixhop}telnet@value{postfixhop} @tab tmp/
@item @value{prefixhop}toto@value{postfix} @tab
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@item @value{prefixhop}telnet@value{postfixhop} @tab @value{prefixhop}toto@value{postfix}
@end ifset
@end multitable
@end example

end of sjLambda@gmail.com edits
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

@samp{@value{prefixhop}telnet@value{postfixhop}}
is a possible completion for the respective method,
@ifset emacs
@samp{tmp/} stands for the directory @file{/tmp} on your local host,
@end ifset
and @samp{@value{prefixhop}toto@value{postfix}}
might be a host @value{tramp} has detected in your @file{~/.ssh/known_hosts}
file (given you're using default method @option{ssh}).

If you go on to type @kbd{e @key{TAB}}, the minibuffer is completed to
@samp{@value{prefix}telnet@value{postfixhop}}.
Next @kbd{@key{TAB}} brings you all host names @value{tramp} detects in
your @file{/etc/hosts} file, let's say

@example
@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@c @multitable {@trampfn{telnet, , melancholia.danann.net,}} {@trampfn{telnet, , 192.168.0.1,}}
@item @trampfn{telnet, , 127.0.0.1,} @tab @trampfn{telnet, , 192.168.0.1,}
@item @trampfn{telnet, , @value{ipv6prefix}::1@value{ipv6postfix},} @tab @trampfn{telnet, , localhost,}
@item @trampfn{telnet, , melancholia.danann.net,} @tab @trampfn{telnet, , melancholia,}
@end multitable
@end example

Now you can choose the desired host, and you can continue to
complete file names on that host.

If the configuration files (@pxref{Customizing Completion}), which
@value{tramp} uses for analysis of completion, offer user names, those user
names will be taken into account as well.

Remote hosts which have been visited in the past and kept
persistently (@pxref{Connection caching}) will be offered too.

Once the remote host identification is completed, it comes to
file name completion on the remote host.  This works pretty much like
for files on the local host, with the exception that minibuffer
killing via a double-slash works only on the file name part, except
that file name part starts with @file{//}.
@ifset emacs
A triple-slash stands for the default behavior.
@end ifset
@ifinfo
@xref{Minibuffer File, , , @value{emacsdir}}.
@end ifinfo

@noindent
Example:

@example
@ifset emacs
@kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{telnet, , melancholia, /usr/local/bin//etc} @key{TAB}}
     @print{} @trampfn{telnet, , melancholia, /etc}

@kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{telnet, , melancholia, //etc} @key{TAB}}
     @print{} /etc

@kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{telnet, , melancholia, /usr/local/bin///etc} @key{TAB}}
     @print{} /etc
@end ifset

@ifset xemacs
@kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{telnet, , melancholia, /usr/local/bin//}}
     @print{} @trampfn{telnet, , melancholia, /}

@kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{telnet, , melancholia, //}}
     @print{} /
@end ifset
@end example

A remote directory might have changed its contents out of
@value{emacsname} control, for example by creation or deletion of
files by other processes.  Therefore, during file name completion, the
remote directory contents are reread regularly in order to detect such
changes, which would be invisible otherwise (@pxref{Connection caching}).

@vindex tramp-completion-reread-directory-timeout
@defopt tramp-completion-reread-directory-timeout
This custom option defines the number of seconds since last remote
command before rereading a directory contents.  A value of 0 would
require an immediate reread during file name completion, @code{nil}
means to use always cached values for the directory contents.
@end defopt


@node Ad-hoc multi-hops
@section Declaring multiple hops in the file name
@cindex multi-hop, ad-hoc
@cindex proxy hosts, ad-hoc

Multiple hops are configured with the variable
@code{tramp-default-proxies-alist} (@pxref{Multi-hops}).  However,
sometimes it is desirable to reach a remote host immediately, without
configuration changes.  This can be reached by an ad-hoc specification
of the proxies.

A proxy looks like a remote file name specification without the local
file name part.  It is prepended to the target remote file name,
separated by @samp{|}.  As an example, a remote file on
@samp{you@@remotehost}, passing the proxy @samp{bird@@bastion}, could
be opened by

@example
@c @kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{ssh@value{postfixhop}bird@@bastion|ssh, you,
@c remotehost, /path}}
@kbd{C-x C-f @value{prefix}ssh@value{postfixhop}bird@@bastion|ssh@value{postfixhop}you@@remotehost@value{postfix}/path}
@end example

Multiple hops can be cascaded, separating all proxies by @samp{|}.
The proxies can also contain the patterns @code{%h} or @code{%u}.

The ad-hoc definition is added on the fly to
@code{tramp-default-proxies-alist}.  Therefore, during the lifetime of
the @value{emacsname} session it is not necessary to enter this ad-hoc
specification, again.  The remote file name @samp{@trampfn{ssh, you,
remotehost, /path}} would be sufficient from now on.

@vindex tramp-save-ad-hoc-proxies
@defopt tramp-save-ad-hoc-proxies
This custom option controls whether ad-hoc definitions are kept
persistently in @option{tramp-default-proxies-alist}.  That means,
those definitions are available also for future @value{emacsname}
sessions.
@end defopt


@node Remote processes
@section Integration with other @value{emacsname} packages
@cindex compile
@cindex recompile

@value{tramp} supports running processes on a remote host.  This
allows to exploit @value{emacsname} packages without modification for
remote file names.  It does not work for the @option{ftp} method.
Association of a pty, as specified in @code{start-file-process}, is
not supported.

@code{process-file} and @code{start-file-process} work on the remote
host when the variable @code{default-directory} is remote:

@lisp
(let ((default-directory "/ssh:remote.host:"))
  (start-file-process "grep" (get-buffer-create "*grep*")
                      "/bin/sh" "-c" "grep -e tramp *"))
@end lisp

@ifset emacsgvfs
If the remote host is mounted via GVFS (see @ref{GVFS based methods}),
the remote filesystem is mounted locally.  Therefore, there are no
remote processes; all processes run still locally on your host with
an adapted @code{default-directory}.  This section does not apply for
such connection methods.
@end ifset

Remote processes are started when a corresponding command is executed
from a buffer belonging to a remote file or directory.  Up to now, the
packages @file{compile.el} (commands like @code{compile} and
@code{grep}) and @file{gud.el} (@code{gdb} or @code{perldb}) have been
integrated.  Integration of further packages is planned, any help for
this is welcome!

When your program is not found in the default search path
@value{tramp} sets on the remote host, you should either use an
absolute path, or extend @code{tramp-remote-path} (see @ref{Remote
programs}):

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-remote-path "~/bin")
(add-to-list 'tramp-remote-path "/appli/pub/bin")
@end lisp

The environment for your program can be adapted by customizing
@code{tramp-remote-process-environment}.  This variable is a list of
strings.  It is structured like @code{process-environment}.  Each
element is a string of the form @samp{ENVVARNAME=VALUE}.  An entry
@samp{ENVVARNAME=} disables the corresponding environment variable,
which might have been set in your init file like @file{~/.profile}.

@noindent
Adding an entry can be performed via @code{add-to-list}:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-remote-process-environment "JAVA_HOME=/opt/java")
@end lisp

Changing or removing an existing entry is not encouraged.  The default
values are chosen for proper @value{tramp} work.  Nevertheless, if for
example a paranoid system administrator disallows changing the
@env{HISTORY} environment variable, you can customize
@code{tramp-remote-process-environment}, or you can apply the
following code in your @file{.emacs}:

@lisp
(let ((process-environment tramp-remote-process-environment))
  (setenv "HISTORY" nil)
  (setq tramp-remote-process-environment process-environment))
@end lisp

When running @code{process-file} or @code{start-file-process} on a
remote @code{default-directory}, the default settings in
@code{process-environment} are not used as it is the case for local
processes.  However, if you need environment variables other than set
in @code{tramp-remote-process-environment}, you can let-bind them to
@code{process-environment}. Only those variables will be set then:

@lisp
(let ((process-environment (cons "HGPLAIN=1" process-environment)))
  (process-file @dots{}))
@end lisp

This works only for environment variables which are not set already in
@code{process-environment}.

If you use other @value{emacsname} packages which do not run
out-of-the-box on a remote host, please let us know.  We will try to
integrate them as well.  @xref{Bug Reports}.


@subsection Running remote programs that create local X11 windows

If you want to run a remote program, which shall connect the X11
server you are using with your local host, you can set the
@env{DISPLAY} environment variable on the remote host:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'tramp-remote-process-environment
             (format "DISPLAY=%s" (getenv "DISPLAY")))
@end lisp

@noindent
@code{(getenv "DISPLAY")} shall return a string containing a host
name, which can be interpreted on the remote host; otherwise you might
use a fixed host name.  Strings like @code{:0} cannot be used properly
on the remote host.

Another trick might be that you put @code{ForwardX11 yes} or
@code{ForwardX11Trusted yes} to your @file{~/.ssh/config} file for
that host.


@subsection Running @code{shell} on a remote host
@cindex shell

Calling @kbd{M-x shell} in a buffer related to a remote host runs the
local shell as defined in @option{shell-file-name}.  This might be
also a valid file name for a shell to be applied on the remote host,
but it will fail at least when your local and remote hosts belong to
different system types, like @samp{windows-nt} and @samp{gnu/linux}.

You must set the variable @option{explicit-shell-file-name} to the
shell file name on the remote host, in order to start that shell on
the remote host.

@ifset emacs
Starting with Emacs 24 this won't be necessary, if you call
@code{shell} interactively.  You will be asked for the remote shell
file name, if you are on a remote buffer, and if
@option{explicit-shell-file-name} is equal to @code{nil}.
@end ifset


@subsection Running @code{shell-command} on a remote host
@cindex shell-command

@code{shell-command} allows to execute commands in a shell, either
synchronously, either asynchronously.  This works also on remote
hosts.  Example:

@example
@kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{sudo, , , } @key{RET}}
@kbd{M-! tail -f /var/log/syslog.log & @key{RET}}
@end example

You will see the buffer @file{*Async Shell Command*}, containing the
continuous output of the @command{tail} command.

@ifset emacs
A similar behavior can be reached by @kbd{M-x auto-revert-tail-mode},
if available.
@end ifset


@subsection Running @code{eshell} on a remote host
@cindex eshell

@value{tramp} is integrated into @file{eshell.el}.  That is, you can
open an interactive shell on your remote host, and run commands there.
After you have started @kbd{M-x eshell}, you could perform commands
like this:

@example
@b{~ $} cd @trampfn{sudo, , , /etc} @key{RET}
@b{@trampfn{sudo, root, host, /etc} $} hostname @key{RET}
host
@b{@trampfn{sudo, root, host, /etc} $} id @key{RET}
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
@b{@trampfn{sudo, root, host, /etc} $} find-file shadow @key{RET}
#<buffer shadow>
@b{@trampfn{sudo, root, host, /etc} $}
@end example

@ifset emacs
Since @value{emacsname} 23.2, @code{eshell} has also an own
implementation of the @code{su} and @code{sudo} commands.  Both
commands change the default directory of the @file{*eshell*} buffer to
the value related to the user the command has switched to.  This works
even on remote hosts, adding silently a corresponding entry to the
variable @code{tramp-default-proxies-alist} (@pxref{Multi-hops}):

@example
@b{~ $} cd @trampfn{ssh, user, remotehost, /etc} @key{RET}
@b{@trampfn{ssh, user, remotehost, /etc} $} find-file shadow @key{RET}
File is not readable: @trampfn{ssh, user, remotehost, /etc/shadow}
@b{@trampfn{ssh, user, remotehost, /etc} $} sudo find-file shadow @key{RET}
#<buffer shadow>

@b{@trampfn{ssh, user, remotehost, /etc} $} su - @key{RET}
@b{@trampfn{su, root, remotehost, /root} $} id @key{RET}
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
@b{@trampfn{su, root, remotehost, /root} $}
@end example
@end ifset


@anchor{Running a debugger on a remote host}
@subsection Running a debugger on a remote host
@cindex gud
@cindex gdb
@cindex perldb

@file{gud.el} offers a unified interface to several symbolic
debuggers
@ifset emacs
@ifinfo
(@ref{Debuggers, , , @value{emacsdir}}).
@end ifinfo
@end ifset
With @value{tramp}, it is possible to debug programs on
remote hosts.  You can call @code{gdb} with a remote file name:

@example
@kbd{M-x gdb @key{RET}}
@b{Run gdb (like this):} gdb --annotate=3 @trampfn{ssh, , host, ~/myprog} @key{RET}
@end example

The file name can also be relative to a remote default directory.
Given you are in a buffer that belongs to the remote directory
@trampfn{ssh, , host, /home/user}, you could call

@example
@kbd{M-x perldb @key{RET}}
@b{Run perldb (like this):} perl -d myprog.pl @key{RET}
@end example

It is not possible to use just the absolute local part of a remote
file name as program to debug, like @kbd{perl -d
/home/user/myprog.pl}, though.

Arguments of the program to be debugged are taken literally.  That
means, file names as arguments must be given as ordinary relative or
absolute file names, without any remote specification.


@subsection Running remote processes on Windows hosts
@cindex winexe
@cindex powershell

With the help of the @command{winexe} it is possible tu run processes
on a remote Windows host.  @value{tramp} has implemented this for
@code{process-file} and @code{start-file-process}.

The variable @code{tramp-smb-winexe-program} must contain the file
name of your local @command{winexe} command.  On the remote host,
Powershell V2.0 must be installed; it is used to run the remote
process.

In order to open a remote shell on the Windows host via @kbd{M-x
shell}, you must set the variables @option{explicit-shell-file-name}
and @option{explicit-*-args}.  If you want, for example, run
@command{cmd}, you must set:

@lisp
(setq explicit-shell-file-name "cmd"
      explicit-cmd-args '("/q"))
@end lisp

@noindent
In case of running @command{powershell} as remote shell, the settings are

@lisp
(setq explicit-shell-file-name "powershell"
      explicit-powershell-args '("-file" "-"))
@end lisp


@node Cleanup remote connections
@section Cleanup remote connections
@cindex cleanup

Sometimes it is useful to cleanup remote connections.  The following
commands support this.

@deffn Command tramp-cleanup-connection vec
This command flushes all connection related objects.  @option{vec} is
the internal representation of a remote connection.  Called
interactively, the command offers all active remote connections in the
minibuffer as remote file name prefix like @file{@trampfn{method,
user, host, }}.  The cleanup includes password cache (@pxref{Password
handling}), file cache, connection cache (@pxref{Connection caching}),
connection buffers.
@end deffn

@deffn Command tramp-cleanup-this-connection
This command flushes all objects of the current buffer's remote
connection.  The same objects are removed as in
@code{tramp-cleanup-connection}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command tramp-cleanup-all-connections
This command flushes objects for all active remote connections.  The
same objects are removed as in @code{tramp-cleanup-connection}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command tramp-cleanup-all-buffers
Like in @code{tramp-cleanup-all-connections}, all remote connections
are cleaned up.  Additionally all buffers, which are related to a
remote connection, are killed.
@end deffn


@node Bug Reports
@chapter Reporting Bugs and Problems
@cindex bug reports

Bugs and problems with @value{tramp} are actively worked on by the
development team.  Feature requests and suggestions are also more than
welcome.

The @value{tramp} mailing list is a great place to get information on
working with @value{tramp}, solving problems and general discussion
and advice on topics relating to the package.  It is moderated so
non-subscribers can post but messages will be delayed, possibly up to
48 hours (or longer in case of holidays), until the moderator approves
your message.

The mailing list is at @email{tramp-devel@@gnu.org}.  Messages sent to
this address go to all the subscribers.  This is @emph{not} the address
to send subscription requests to.

Subscribing to the list is performed via
@uref{http://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/tramp-devel/,
the @value{tramp} Mail Subscription Page}.

@ifset emacs
@ifset installchapter
Before sending a bug report, you could check whether @value{tramp}
works at all.  Run the test suite on your local host, @ref{Testing}.
@end ifset
@end ifset

@findex tramp-bug
To report a bug in @value{tramp}, you should execute @kbd{M-x
tramp-bug}.  This will automatically generate a buffer with the details
of your system and @value{tramp} version.

When submitting a bug report, please try to describe in excruciating
detail the steps required to reproduce the problem, the setup of the
remote host and any special conditions that exist.  You should also
check that your problem is not described already in @xref{Frequently
Asked Questions}.

If you can identify a minimal test case that reproduces the problem,
include that with your bug report.  This will make it much easier for
the development team to analyze and correct the problem.

Sometimes, there might be also problems due to Tramp caches.  Flush
all caches before running the test, @ref{Cleanup remote connections}.

Before reporting the bug, you should set the verbosity level to 6
(@pxref{Traces and Profiles, Traces}) in the @file{~/.emacs} file and
repeat the bug.  Then, include the contents of the @file{*tramp/foo*}
and @file{*debug tramp/foo*} buffers in your bug report.  A verbosity
level greater than 6 will produce a very huge debug buffer, which is
mostly not necessary for the analysis.

Please be aware that, with a verbosity level of 6 or greater, the
contents of files and directories will be included in the debug
buffer.  Passwords you've typed will never be included there.


@node Frequently Asked Questions
@chapter Frequently Asked Questions
@cindex frequently asked questions
@cindex FAQ

@itemize @bullet
@item
Where can I get the latest @value{tramp}?

@value{tramp} is available under the URL below.

@noindent
@uref{ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/tramp/}

@noindent
There is also a Savannah project page.

@noindent
@uref{http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/tramp/}


@item
Which systems does it work on?

The package has been used successfully on Emacs 22, Emacs 23, Emacs
24, XEmacs 21 (starting with 21.4), and SXEmacs 22.

The package was intended to work on Unix, and it really expects a
Unix-like system on the remote end (except the @option{smb} method),
but some people seemed to have some success getting it to work on MS
Windows XP/Vista/7 @value{emacsname}.


@item
How could I speed up @value{tramp}?

In the backstage, @value{tramp} needs a lot of operations on the
remote host.  The time for transferring data from and to the remote
host as well as the time needed to perform the operations there count.
In order to speed up @value{tramp}, one could either try to avoid some
of the operations, or one could try to improve their performance.

Use an external method, like @option{scp}.

Use caching.  This is already enabled by default.  Information about
the remote host as well as the remote files are cached for reuse.  The
information about remote hosts is kept in the file specified in
@code{tramp-persistency-file-name}.  Keep this file.  If you are
confident that files on remote hosts are not changed out of
@value{emacsname}' control, set @code{remote-file-name-inhibit-cache}
to @code{nil}.  Set also @code{tramp-completion-reread-directory-timeout}
to @code{nil}, @ref{File name completion}.

Disable version control.  If you access remote files which are not
under version control, a lot of check operations can be avoided by
disabling VC@.  This can be achieved by

@lisp
(setq vc-ignore-dir-regexp
      (format "\\(%s\\)\\|\\(%s\\)"
              vc-ignore-dir-regexp
              tramp-file-name-regexp))
@end lisp

Disable excessive traces.  The default trace level of @value{tramp},
defined in the variable @code{tramp-verbose}, is 3.  You should
increase this level only temporarily, hunting bugs.


@item
@value{tramp} does not connect to the remote host

When @value{tramp} does not connect to the remote host, there are three
reasons heading the bug mailing list:

@itemize @minus
@item
Unknown characters in the prompt

@value{tramp} needs to recognize the prompt on the remote host
after execution any command.  This is not possible when the prompt
contains unknown characters like escape sequences for coloring.  This
should be avoided on the remote side.  @xref{Remote shell setup}. for
setting the regular expression detecting the prompt.

You can check your settings after an unsuccessful connection by
switching to the @value{tramp} connection buffer @file{*tramp/foo*},
setting the cursor at the top of the buffer, and applying the expression

@example
@kbd{M-: (re-search-forward (concat tramp-shell-prompt-pattern "$"))}
@end example

If it fails, or the cursor is not moved at the end of the buffer, your
prompt is not recognized correctly.

A special problem is the zsh shell, which uses left-hand side and
right-hand side prompts in parallel.  Therefore, it is necessary to
disable the zsh line editor on the remote host.  You shall add to
@file{~/.zshrc} the following command:

@example
[ $TERM = "dumb" ] && unsetopt zle && PS1='$ '
@end example

Similar fancy prompt settings are known from the fish shell.  Here you
must add in @file{~/.config/fish/config.fish}:

@example
function fish_prompt
  if test $TERM = "dumb"
     echo "\$ "
  else
     @dots{}
  end
end
@end example

Furthermore it has been reported, that @value{tramp} (like sshfs,
incidentally) doesn't work with WinSSHD due to strange prompt settings.

@item
Echoed characters after login

When the remote host opens an echoing shell, there might be control
characters in the welcome message.  @value{tramp} tries to suppress
such echoes via the @command{stty -echo} command, but sometimes this
command is not reached, because the echoed output has confused
@value{tramp} already.  In such situations it might be helpful to use
the @option{sshx} or @option{scpx} methods, which allocate a pseudo tty.
@xref{Inline methods}.

@item
@value{tramp} doesn't transfer strings with more than 500 characters
correctly

On some few systems, the implementation of @code{process-send-string}
seems to be broken for longer strings.  It is reported for HP-UX,
FreeBSD and Tru64 Unix, for example.  This case, you should customize
the variable @code{tramp-chunksize} to 500.  For a description how to
determine whether this is necessary see the documentation of
@code{tramp-chunksize}.

Additionally, it will be useful to set @code{file-precious-flag} to
@code{t} for @value{tramp} files.  Then the file contents will be
written into a temporary file first, which is checked for correct
checksum.
@ifinfo
@pxref{Saving Buffers, , , elisp}
@end ifinfo

@lisp
(add-hook
 'find-file-hook
 (lambda ()
   (when (file-remote-p default-directory)
     (set (make-local-variable 'file-precious-flag) t))))
@end lisp
@end itemize


@item
@value{tramp} does not recognize hung @command{ssh} sessions

When your network connection is down, @command{ssh} sessions might
hang.  @value{tramp} cannot detect it safely, because it still sees a
running @command{ssh} process.  Timeouts cannot be used as well,
because it cannot be predicted how long a remote command will last,
for example when copying very large files.

Therefore, you must configure the @command{ssh} process to die
in such a case.  The following entry in @file{~/.ssh/config} would do
the job:

@example
Host *
     ServerAliveInterval 5
@end example


@item
@value{tramp} does not use my @command{ssh} @code{ControlPath}

Your @code{ControlPath} setting will be overwritten by @command{ssh}
sessions initiated by @value{tramp}.  This is because a master
session, initiated outside @value{emacsname}, could be closed, which
would stall all other @command{ssh} sessions for that host inside
@value{emacsname}.

Consequently, if you connect to a remote host via @value{tramp}, you
might be prompted for a password again, even if you have established
already an @command{ssh} connection to that host.  Further
@value{tramp} connections to that host, for example in order to run a
process on that host, will reuse that initial @command{ssh}
connection.

If your @command{ssh} version supports the @code{ControlPersist}
option, you could customize the variable
@code{tramp-ssh-controlmaster-options} to use your @code{ControlPath},
for example:

@lisp
(setq tramp-ssh-controlmaster-options
      (concat
        "-o ControlPath=/tmp/ssh-ControlPath-%%r@@%%h:%%p "
        "-o ControlMaster=auto -o ControlPersist=yes"))
@end lisp

Note, that "%r", "%h" and "%p" must be encoded as "%%r", "%%h" and
"%%p", respectively.

These settings can be suppressed, if they are configured properly in
your @file{~/.ssh/config}:

@lisp
(setq tramp-use-ssh-controlmaster-options nil)
@end lisp


@item
File name completion does not work with @value{tramp}

When you log in to the remote host, do you see the output of
@command{ls} in color? If so, this may be the cause of your problems.

@command{ls} outputs @acronym{ANSI} escape sequences that your terminal
emulator interprets to set the colors.  These escape sequences will
confuse @value{tramp} however.

In your @file{.bashrc}, @file{.profile} or equivalent on the remote
host you probably have an alias configured that adds the option
@option{--color=yes} or @option{--color=auto}.

You should remove that alias and ensure that a new login @emph{does not}
display the output of @command{ls} in color.  If you still cannot use
file name completion, report a bug to the @value{tramp} developers.


@item
File name completion does not work in large directories

@value{tramp} uses globbing for some operations.  (Globbing means to use the
shell to expand wildcards such as @samp{*.c}.)  This might create long
command lines, especially in directories with many files.  Some shells
choke on long command lines, or don't cope well with the globbing
itself.

If you have a large directory on the remote end, you may wish to execute
a command like @samp{ls -d * ..?* > /dev/null} and see if it hangs.
Note that you must first start the right shell, which might be
@command{/bin/sh}, @command{ksh} or @command{bash}, depending on which
of those supports tilde expansion.


@item
How can I get notified when @value{tramp} file transfers are complete?

The following snippet can be put in your @file{~/.emacs} file.  It
makes @value{emacsname} beep after reading from or writing to the
remote host.

@lisp
(defadvice tramp-handle-write-region
  (after tramp-write-beep-advice activate)
  "Make tramp beep after writing a file."
  (interactive)
  (beep))

(defadvice tramp-handle-do-copy-or-rename-file
  (after tramp-copy-beep-advice activate)
  "Make tramp beep after copying a file."
  (interactive)
  (beep))

(defadvice tramp-handle-insert-file-contents
  (after tramp-insert-beep-advice activate)
  "Make tramp beep after inserting a file."
  (interactive)
  (beep))
@end lisp


@ifset emacs
@item
I'ld like to get a Visual Warning when working in a sudo:ed context

When you are working with @samp{root} privileges, it might be useful
to get an indication in the buffer's modeline.  The following code,
tested with @value{emacsname} 22.1, does the job.  You should put it
into your @file{~/.emacs}:

@lisp
(defun my-mode-line-function ()
  (when (string-match "^/su\\(do\\)?:" default-directory)
    (setq mode-line-format
          (format-mode-line mode-line-format 'font-lock-warning-face))))

(add-hook 'find-file-hook 'my-mode-line-function)
(add-hook 'dired-mode-hook 'my-mode-line-function)
@end lisp
@end ifset


@ifset emacs
@item
I'ld like to see a host indication in the mode line when I'm remote

The following code has been tested with @value{emacsname} 22.1.  You
should put it into your @file{~/.emacs}:

@lisp
(defconst my-mode-line-buffer-identification
  (list
   '(:eval
     (let ((host-name
            (if (file-remote-p default-directory)
                (tramp-file-name-host
                 (tramp-dissect-file-name default-directory))
              (system-name))))
       (if (string-match "^[^0-9][^.]*\\(\\..*\\)" host-name)
           (substring host-name 0 (match-beginning 1))
         host-name)))
   ": %12b"))

(setq-default
 mode-line-buffer-identification
 my-mode-line-buffer-identification)

(add-hook
 'dired-mode-hook
 (lambda ()
   (setq
    mode-line-buffer-identification
    my-mode-line-buffer-identification)))
@end lisp

Since @value{emacsname} 23.1, the mode line contains an indication if
@code{default-directory} for the current buffer is on a remote host.
The corresponding tooltip includes the name of that host.  If you
still want the host name as part of the mode line, you can use the
example above, but the @code{:eval} clause can be simplified:

@lisp
   '(:eval
     (let ((host-name
            (or (file-remote-p default-directory 'host)
                (system-name))))
       (if (string-match "^[^0-9][^.]*\\(\\..*\\)" host-name)
           (substring host-name 0 (match-beginning 1))
         host-name)))
@end lisp
@end ifset


@ifset emacs
@item
My remote host does not understand default directory listing options

@value{emacsname} computes the @command{dired} options depending on
the local host you are working.  If your @command{ls} command on the
remote host does not understand those options, you can change them
like this:

@lisp
(add-hook
 'dired-before-readin-hook
 (lambda ()
   (when (file-remote-p default-directory)
     (setq dired-actual-switches "-al"))))
@end lisp
@end ifset


@item
There's this @file{~/.sh_history} file on the remote host which keeps
growing and growing.  What's that?

Sometimes, @value{tramp} starts @command{ksh} on the remote host for
tilde expansion.  Maybe @command{ksh} saves the history by default.
@value{tramp} tries to turn off saving the history, but maybe you have
to help.  For example, you could put this in your @file{.kshrc}:

@example
if [ -f $HOME/.sh_history ] ; then
   /bin/rm $HOME/.sh_history
fi
if [ "$@{HISTFILE-unset@}" != "unset" ] ; then
   unset HISTFILE
fi
if [ "$@{HISTSIZE-unset@}" != "unset" ] ; then
   unset HISTSIZE
fi
@end example

Furthermore, if you use an @option{ssh}-based method, you could add
the following line to your @file{~/.ssh/environment} file:

@example
HISTFILE=/dev/null
@end example


@item There are longish file names to type.  How to shorten this?

Let's say you need regularly access to @file{@trampfn{ssh, news,
news.my.domain, /opt/news/etc}}, which is boring to type again and
again.  The following approaches can be mixed:

@enumerate

@item Use default values for method and user name:

You can define default methods and user names for hosts,
(@pxref{Default Method}, @pxref{Default User}):

@lisp
(setq tramp-default-method "ssh"
      tramp-default-user "news")
@end lisp

The file name left to type would be
@kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{, , news.my.domain, /opt/news/etc}}.

Note that there are some useful settings already.  Accessing your
local host as @samp{root} user, is possible just by @kbd{C-x C-f
@trampfn{su, , ,}}.

@item Use configuration possibilities of your method:

Several connection methods (i.e., the programs used) offer powerful
configuration possibilities (@pxref{Customizing Completion}).  In the
given case, this could be @file{~/.ssh/config}:

@example
Host xy
     HostName news.my.domain
     User news
@end example

The file name left to type would be @kbd{C-x C-f @trampfn{ssh, , xy,
/opt/news/etc}}.  Depending on files in your directories, it is even
possible to complete the host name with @kbd{C-x C-f
@value{prefix}ssh@value{postfixhop}x @key{TAB}}.

@item Use environment variables:

File names typed in the minibuffer can be expanded by environment
variables.  You can set them outside @value{emacsname}, or even with
Lisp:

@lisp
(setenv "xy" "@trampfn{ssh, news, news.my.domain, /opt/news/etc/}")
@end lisp

Then you need simply to type @kbd{C-x C-f $xy @key{RET}}, and here you
are.  The disadvantage is that you cannot edit the file name, because
environment variables are not expanded during editing in the
minibuffer.

@item Define own keys:

You can define your own key sequences in @value{emacsname}, which can
be used instead of @kbd{C-x C-f}:

@lisp
(global-set-key
 [(control x) (control y)]
 (lambda ()
   (interactive)
   (find-file
    (read-file-name
     "Find Tramp file: "
     "@trampfn{ssh, news, news.my.domain, /opt/news/etc/}"))))
@end lisp

Simply typing @kbd{C-x C-y} would initialize the minibuffer for
editing with your beloved file name.

See also @uref{http://www.emacswiki.org/cgi-bin/wiki/TrampMode, the
Emacs Wiki} for a more comprehensive example.

@item Define own abbreviation (1):

It is possible to define an own abbreviation list for expanding file
names:

@lisp
(add-to-list
 'directory-abbrev-alist
 '("^/xy" . "@trampfn{ssh, news, news.my.domain, /opt/news/etc/}"))
@end lisp

This shortens the file opening command to @kbd{C-x C-f /xy
@key{RET}}.  The disadvantage is, again, that you cannot edit the file
name, because the expansion happens after entering the file name only.

@item Define own abbreviation (2):

The @code{abbrev-mode} gives more flexibility for editing the
minibuffer:

@lisp
(define-abbrev-table 'my-tramp-abbrev-table
  '(("xy" "@trampfn{ssh, news, news.my.domain, /opt/news/etc/}")))

(add-hook
 'minibuffer-setup-hook
 (lambda ()
   (abbrev-mode 1)
   (setq local-abbrev-table my-tramp-abbrev-table)))

(defadvice minibuffer-complete
  (before my-minibuffer-complete activate)
  (expand-abbrev))

;; If you use partial-completion-mode
(defadvice PC-do-completion
  (before my-PC-do-completion activate)
  (expand-abbrev))
@end lisp

After entering @kbd{C-x C-f xy @key{TAB}}, the minibuffer is
expanded, and you can continue editing.

@item Use bookmarks:

Bookmarks can be used to visit Tramp files or directories.
@ifinfo
@pxref{Bookmarks, , , @value{emacsdir}}
@end ifinfo

When you have opened @file{@trampfn{ssh, news, news.my.domain,
/opt/news/etc/}}, you should save the bookmark via
@ifset emacs
@kbd{@key{menu-bar} @key{edit} @key{bookmarks} @key{set}}.
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@kbd{@key{menu-bar} @key{view} @key{bookmarks} @key{set}}.
@end ifset

Later on, you can always navigate to that bookmark via
@ifset emacs
@kbd{@key{menu-bar} @key{edit} @key{bookmarks} @key{jump}}.
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@kbd{@key{menu-bar} @key{view} @key{bookmarks} @key{jump}}.
@end ifset

@item Use recent files:

@ifset emacs
@file{recentf}
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@file{recent-files}
@end ifset
remembers visited places.
@ifinfo
@ifset emacs
@pxref{File Conveniences, , , @value{emacsdir}}
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@pxref{recent-files, , , edit-utils}
@end ifset
@end ifinfo

You could keep remote file names in the recent list without checking
their readability through a remote access:

@lisp
@ifset emacs
(recentf-mode 1)
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
(recent-files-initialize)
(add-hook
 'find-file-hook
 (lambda ()
   (when (file-remote-p (buffer-file-name))
     (recent-files-make-permanent)))
 'append)
@end ifset
@end lisp

The list of files opened recently is reachable via
@ifset emacs
@kbd{@key{menu-bar} @key{file} @key{Open Recent}}.
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@kbd{@key{menu-bar} @key{Recent Files}}.
@end ifset

@ifset emacs
@item Use filecache:

@file{filecache} remembers visited places.  Add the directory into
the cache:

@lisp
(eval-after-load "filecache"
  '(file-cache-add-directory
    "@trampfn{ssh, news, news.my.domain, /opt/news/etc/}"))
@end lisp

Whenever you want to load a file, you can enter @kbd{C-x C-f
C-@key{TAB}} in the minibuffer.  The completion is done for the given
directory.
@end ifset

@ifset emacs
@item Use bbdb:

@file{bbdb} has a built-in feature for @value{ftppackagename} files,
which works also for @value{tramp}.
@ifinfo
@pxref{bbdb-ftp, Storing FTP sites in the BBDB, , bbdb}
@end ifinfo

You need to load @file{bbdb}:

@lisp
(require 'bbdb)
(bbdb-initialize)
@end lisp

Then you can create a BBDB entry via @kbd{M-x bbdb-create-ftp-site}.
Because BBDB is not prepared for @value{tramp} syntax, you must
specify a method together with the user name when needed.  Example:

@example
@kbd{M-x bbdb-create-ftp-site @key{RET}}
@b{Ftp Site:} news.my.domain @key{RET}
@b{Ftp Directory:} /opt/news/etc/ @key{RET}
@b{Ftp Username:} ssh@value{postfixhop}news @key{RET}
@b{Company:} @key{RET}
@b{Additional Comments:} @key{RET}
@end example

When you have opened your BBDB buffer, you can access such an entry by
pressing the key @key{F}.
@end ifset

@end enumerate

I would like to thank all @value{tramp} users who have contributed to
the different recipes!


@item I have saved @value{tramp} file names as indicated.  But it
doesn't work in a new @value{emacsname} session!

If you have saved an ad-hoc multi-hop @value{tramp} file name
(@pxref{Ad-hoc multi-hops}) via bookmarks, recent files,
@ifset emacs
filecache, bbdb,
@end ifset
or another package, you must use the full ad-hoc file name including
all hops, like @file{@trampfn{ssh, bird,
bastion|ssh@value{postfixhop}news.my.domain, /opt/news/etc}}.

Alternatively, if you save only the abbreviated multi-hop file name
@file{@trampfn{ssh, news, news.my.domain, /opt/news/etc}}, the custom
option @code{tramp-save-ad-hoc-proxies} must be set to a to a
non-@code{nil} value.


@ifset emacs
@item
How can I use @value{tramp} to connect to a remote @value{emacsname}
session?

You can configure Emacs Client doing this.
@ifinfo
@xref{Emacs Server, , , @value{emacsdir}}.
@end ifinfo

On the remote host, you start the Emacs Server:

@lisp
(require 'server)
(setq server-host (system-name)
      server-use-tcp t)
(server-start)
@end lisp

Make sure that the result of @code{(system-name)} can be resolved on
your local host; otherwise you might use a hard coded IP address.

The resulting file @file{~/.emacs.d/server/server} must be copied to
your local host, at the same location.  You can call then the Emacs
Client from the command line:

@example
emacsclient @trampfn{ssh, user, host, /file/to/edit}
@end example

@code{user} and @code{host} shall be related to your local host.

If you want to use Emacs Client also as editor for other programs, you
could write a script @file{emacsclient.sh}:

@example
#!/bin/sh
emacsclient @trampfn{ssh, $(whoami), $(hostname --fqdn), $1}
@end example

Then you must set the environment variable @env{EDITOR} pointing to
that script:

@example
export EDITOR=/path/to/emacsclient.sh
@end example
@end ifset


@item
There are packages which call @value{tramp} although I haven't entered
a remote file name ever.  I dislike it, how could I disable it?

In general, @value{tramp} functions are used only when
you apply remote file name syntax.  However, some packages enable
@value{tramp} on their own.

@itemize @minus
@item
@file{ido.el}

You could disable @value{tramp} file name completion:

@lisp
(custom-set-variables
 '(ido-enable-tramp-completion nil))
@end lisp

@item
@file{rlogin.el}

You could disable remote directory tracking mode:

@lisp
(rlogin-directory-tracking-mode -1)
@end lisp
@end itemize


@item
How can I disable @value{tramp} at all?

Shame on you, why did you read until now?

@itemize @minus
@ifset emacs
@item
If you just want to have @value{ftppackagename} as default remote
files access package, you should apply the following code:

@lisp
(setq tramp-default-method "ftp")
@end lisp
@end ifset

@item
In order to disable
@ifset emacs
@value{tramp} (and @value{ftppackagename}),
@end ifset
@ifset xemacs
@value{tramp},
@end ifset
you must set @code{tramp-mode} to @code{nil}:

@lisp
(setq tramp-mode nil)
@end lisp

@item
Unloading @value{tramp} can be achieved by applying @kbd{M-x
tramp-unload-tramp}.
@ifset emacs
This resets also the @value{ftppackagename} plugins.
@end ifset
@end itemize
@end itemize


@c For the developer
@node Files directories and localnames
@chapter How file names, directories and localnames are mangled and managed.

@menu
* Localname deconstruction::    Breaking a localname into its components.
@ifset emacs
* External packages::           Integration with external Lisp packages.
@end ifset
@end menu


@node Localname deconstruction
@section Breaking a localname into its components

@value{tramp} file names are somewhat different, obviously, to ordinary file
names.  As such, the lisp functions @code{file-name-directory} and
@code{file-name-nondirectory} are overridden within the @value{tramp}
package.

Their replacements are reasonably simplistic in their approach.  They
dissect the file name, call the original handler on the localname and
then rebuild the @value{tramp} file name with the result.

This allows the platform specific hacks in the original handlers to take
effect while preserving the @value{tramp} file name information.


@ifset emacs
@node External packages
@section Integration with external Lisp packages
@subsection File name completion.

While reading file names in the minibuffer, @value{tramp} must decide
whether it completes possible incomplete file names, or not.  Imagine
there is the following situation: You have typed @kbd{C-x C-f
@value{prefix}ssh@value{postfixhop} @key{TAB}}.  @value{tramp} cannot
know, whether @option{ssh} is a method or a host name.  It checks
therefore the last input character you have typed.  If this is
@key{TAB}, @key{SPACE} or @kbd{?}, @value{tramp} assumes that you are
still in file name completion, and it does not connect to the possible
remote host @option{ssh}.

External packages, which use other characters for completing file names
in the minibuffer, must signal this to @value{tramp}.  For this case,
the variable @code{non-essential} can be bound temporarily to
a non-@code{nil} value.

@lisp
(let ((non-essential t))
  @dots{})
@end lisp


@subsection File attributes cache.

When @value{tramp} runs remote processes, files on the remote host
could change their attributes.  Consequently, @value{tramp} must flush
its complete cache keeping attributes for all files of the remote host
it has seen so far.

This is a performance degradation, because the lost file attributes
must be recomputed when needed again.  In cases where the caller of
@code{process-file} knows that there are no file attribute changes, it
should let-bind the variable @code{process-file-side-effects} to
@code{nil}.  Then @value{tramp} won't flush the file attributes cache.

@lisp
(let (process-file-side-effects)
  @dots{})
@end lisp

For asynchronous processes, @value{tramp} flushes the file attributes
cache via a process sentinel.  If the caller of
@code{start-file-process} knows that there are no file attribute
changes, it should set the process sentinel to the default.  In cases
where the caller defines its own process sentinel, @value{tramp}'s process
sentinel is overwritten.  The caller can still flush the file
attributes cache in its process sentinel with this code:

@lisp
(unless (memq (process-status proc) '(run open))
  (dired-uncache remote-directory))
@end lisp

@code{remote-directory} shall be the root directory, where file
attribute changes can happen during the process lifetime.
@value{tramp} traverses all subdirectories, starting at this
directory.  Often, it is sufficient to use @code{default-directory} of
the process buffer as root directory.
@end ifset


@node Traces and Profiles
@chapter How to Customize Traces

All @value{tramp} messages are raised with a verbosity level.  The
verbosity level can be any number between 0 and 10.  Only messages with
a verbosity level less than or equal to @code{tramp-verbose} are
displayed.

The verbosity levels are

          @w{ 0}  silent (no @value{tramp} messages at all)
@*@indent @w{ 1}  errors
@*@indent @w{ 2}  warnings
@*@indent @w{ 3}  connection to remote hosts (default verbosity)
@*@indent @w{ 4}  activities
@*@indent @w{ 5}  internal
@*@indent @w{ 6}  sent and received strings
@*@indent @w{ 7}  file caching
@*@indent @w{ 8}  connection properties
@*@indent @w{ 9}  test commands
@*@indent @w{10}  traces (huge)

When @code{tramp-verbose} is greater than or equal to 4, the messages
are also written into a @value{tramp} debug buffer.  This debug buffer
is useful for analyzing problems; sending a @value{tramp} bug report
should be done with @code{tramp-verbose} set to a verbosity level of at
least 6 (@pxref{Bug Reports}).

The debug buffer is in
@ifinfo
@ref{Outline Mode, , , @value{emacsdir}}.
@end ifinfo
@ifnotinfo
Outline Mode.
@end ifnotinfo
That means, you can change the level of messages to be viewed.  If you
want, for example, see only messages up to verbosity level 5, you must
enter @kbd{C-u 6 C-c C-q}.
@ifinfo
Other keys for navigating are described in
@ref{Outline Visibility, , , @value{emacsdir}}.
@end ifinfo

@value{tramp} errors are handled internally in order to raise the
verbosity level 1 messages.  When you want to get a Lisp backtrace in
case of an error, you need to set both

@lisp
(setq debug-on-error t
      debug-on-signal t)
@end lisp

Sometimes, it might be even necessary to step through @value{tramp}
function call traces.  Such traces are enabled by the following code:

@lisp
(require 'trace)
(dolist (elt (all-completions "tramp-" obarray 'functionp))
  (trace-function-background (intern elt)))
(untrace-function 'tramp-read-passwd)
(untrace-function 'tramp-gw-basic-authentication)
@end lisp

The function call traces are inserted in the buffer
@file{*trace-output*}.  @code{tramp-read-passwd} and
@code{tramp-gw-basic-authentication} shall be disabled when the
function call traces are added to @value{tramp}, because both
functions return password strings, which should not be distributed.


@node Issues
@chapter Debatable Issues and What Was Decided

@itemize @bullet
@item The uuencode method does not always work.

Due to the design of @value{tramp}, the encoding and decoding programs
need to read from stdin and write to stdout.  On some systems,
@command{uudecode -o -} will read stdin and write the decoded file to
stdout, on other systems @command{uudecode -p} does the same thing.
But some systems have uudecode implementations which cannot do this at
all---it is not possible to call these uudecode implementations with
suitable parameters so that they write to stdout.

Of course, this could be circumvented: the @code{begin foo 644} line
could be rewritten to put in some temporary file name, then
@command{uudecode} could be called, then the temp file could be
printed and deleted.

But I have decided that this is too fragile to reliably work, so on some
systems you'll have to do without the uuencode methods.

@item The @value{tramp} file name syntax differs between Emacs and XEmacs.

The Emacs maintainers wish to use a unified file name syntax for
Ange-FTP and @value{tramp} so that users don't have to learn a new
syntax.  It is sufficient to learn some extensions to the old syntax.

For the XEmacs maintainers, the problems caused from using a unified
file name syntax are greater than the gains.  The XEmacs package system
uses EFS for downloading new packages.  So, obviously, EFS has to be
installed from the start.  If the file names were unified, @value{tramp}
would have to be installed from the start, too.

@ifset xemacs
@strong{Note:} If you'd like to use a similar syntax like
@value{ftppackagename}, you need the following settings in your init
file:

@lisp
(setq tramp-unified-filenames t)
(require 'tramp)
@end lisp

The autoload of the @value{emacsname} @value{tramp} package must be
disabled.  This can be achieved by setting file permissions @code{000}
to the files @file{@dots{}/xemacs-packages/lisp/tramp/auto-autoloads.el*}.

In case of unified file names, all @value{emacsname} download sites are
added to @code{tramp-default-method-alist} with default method
@option{ftp} @xref{Default Method}.  These settings shouldn't be
touched for proper working of the @value{emacsname} package system.

The syntax for unified file names is described in the @value{tramp} manual
for @value{emacsothername}.
@end ifset
@end itemize


@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include doclicense.texi


@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index
@printindex fn


@node Variable Index
@unnumbered Variable Index
@printindex vr


@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index
@printindex cp

@bye

@c TODO
@c
@c * Say something about the .login and .profile files of the remote
@c   shells.
@c * Explain how tramp.el works in principle: open a shell on a remote
@c   host and then send commands to it.
@c * Consistent small or capitalized words especially in menus.
@c * Make a unique declaration of @trampfn.
